Chapter 1: How to take a compliment
By Wayne Elise
This is the companion piece to my earlier ‘How to give a compliment.’
On a cosmic scale, life, organization and purpose are temporary. Culture, architecture, the internet, cars, Sunday-fun-days, language and everything human kind enjoys and has made are temporary exceptions in a Universe intent on running down and spreading out into a thin cloud of radiation.
“Ta-da! I bought you a Vespa!”
“Wow! It has a sidecar and everything!”
“And racing stripes. They won’t have Vespas in the future.”
“No they won’t. Entropy.”
“Yeah, dang entropy. Enjoy the Universe of useful clumpy energy and matter while it lasts.”
“You know we’re here by a quirk of fate, right?”
“Oh yeah, I know. To hell with it. Want to rob a bank?”
“With a Vespa?”
“Makes a stylish getaway vehicle.”
“We’ll need googles.”
One day, many years from now, the only thing left will be neutrons floating in space and a state of uniform, low-level radiation distribution. And nothing will be interesting – forever more. See The Heat Death of the Universe.
Compliments take effort. And that is wonderful because it is in opposition to the nature of the Universe which is nudging us toward apathy and decay.
“You are the best amateur sushi chef in the world.”
“Oh, no way. I’m not that good.”
“Dude, your rolls are tight.”
“Sure. But not the tightest.”
“I think they are.”
“Have you seen Deb’s rolls? Now those are tight.”
“They’re not bad.”
“What? Are you arguing with me now?”
“No. I was just saying I like yours the best.”
“Well, I’m not ready to handle that level of appreciation.”
“Apparently. Sheesh.”
When someone gives you a compliment you may think it insincere. You may think they have ulterior motives. Maybe they do. But as Shakespeare said, “Nobody cares. Because all of life is a stage and to be a charismatic you gotta go with it. Sincerity is just good acting bro.”
Think of complimenting as staging Shakespeare at your community theater. There are roles to be cast and lines to be delivered.
If you’re lucky enough to be cast as The Complimented, your intention is to wow the audience with your social grace and generosity. The proper response to a compliment is to shift the focus back to The Complimentor’s generosity.
“Good deed my friend. With that sacrifice of yours I have made the break towards daylight. In no small measure am I to be made whole again and meet with the restoration of my fortune.”
“My fortune was made by your acquaintance sir and by your words. You are forthwith full of courage and vigor to speak such to one of my station.”
“I only speak the marrow of my bones. Truth!”
“It t’would be easier to let the moment go unannounced tho my lord.”
“Nay, would be harder. Things are turning out right, save for the spear in your side and this crimson puddle at your feet, dear corporal and friend.”
“The cost is small. In a fortnight the republic will be yours. I have made a good death of it.”
“Good night sir. Sojourn off and I will remember you well.”
“Blech.”
And the curtain falls on the scene.
I can see the review in the Times now. “Dazzling! Whoever that person was in the role of The Complimented took likability to a new level. What an egoless performance! Too bad the character was killed off in the first act.”
When someone gives you a compliment, they are willing to stick their thumb in the Universe’s eye. Give them some love. Focus the conversation on their courage and kindness and then use the conversation to PLAY.
Ding Ding!
“Awesome. You’re the best bike messenger we have.”
“No worries. I’m just doing my job.”
“Seriously, most of the bike messengers get the package here ten minute late. You always get it up here early.”
“It’s my fancy bike.”
“I beg to differ. It’s the rider.”
“No. I’m sorry, it’s the bike!”
“Rider!”
“Bike!”
“Shut up and accept my compliment or I’ll take that silly mohawk helmet off your head and throw it out the window!”
“Okay. Fine. Thank you for the nice words! It’s kind of you to go out of your way to say them! Now can I have my helmet back?”
“What are your plans for lunch tomorrow?”
“Uh, no plans exactly.”
“Good. You can have your helmet back if you take me to lunch.”
“Fine!”
“Fine! Here, take it.”
“Good! Thank you.”
“Good bye! By the way, nice buns!”
“Right. Uh… thanks. That’s kind of you to say.”
“There you go. Good response. I took a photo of them. Hope you don’t mind.”
“Sorry. Of what?”
“Your buns. I uploaded them to one of those Hot or Not sites.”
“I see.”
“Sorry. Hope that’s alright.”
“Well um, how did they do?”
“Your buns? Yeah, they won best buns. CNN wants to interview you.”
“Really?”
“No. Not really. April Fools!”
“Ha. Aren’t you a day late?”
“You were supposed to come yesterday.”
“Something you should know. These aren’t my real buns. They’re implants.”
“Ha. Nice try. I know the real deal when I see them.”
“No really. Look.”
“Dear god!”
“Ha. Just kidding. That’s just my water bottle. See you tomorrow.”
Ding Ding.
Let’s review. Step 1) Appreciate the effort to make the compliment. Step 2) Use the topic to find a way to play together. Step 3) Come back here and report.

Chapter 2: How to give a compliment
 
By Wayne Elise
I’m sure you’ve tried to deliver a compliment and had it land like a dead fish. We all have.
“You have a scholarly way about yourself.”
“What are you on about? Are you calling me a nerd? Are you having a go at me mate?”
“No. No. I was just trying to be nice.”
“Well, it’s out of order idn’t?”
Other times we give a compliment and it creates embarrassment.
“Nice hair.”
She looks at the floor. “Uh, thanks.”
He stares off into space. “Well uh, I just think it’s silky and shiny like a pony.”
She walks off.
There’s a theory that if someone does not accept a compliment they have low self-esteem. This is poppycock.
“I think you are the most handsome knight at this entire Renaissance Festival.”
“My’lady is too kind. I am but a lump of coal compared to Sir Kevin or Sir Teejay. They are like the diamonds atop her majesties crown.”
That’s just modesty in action. You will also find that people don’t like to accept compliments from particular people since doing so creates a sense of obligation.
But none of that really matters. I use compliments in an entirely different way.
I use them to stimulate PLAY.
Remember PLAY. That’s that thing we did as kids and we don’t do enough of as adults because we’re to busy feeling stressed.
That’s too bad. I think PLAY is the highest way of being with another person. When we PLAY, we forget our worries and limitations. We enter into a realm of imagination.
Here are my steps to giving compliments:
Step 1, Say what you see.
Step 2, Say how you feel.
Step 3, Say what can happen. Use a couple tools you learned from Conversation Camp here: Action Words and Act Outs.
For example:
I was recently walking down a corridor with Erika when a girl with a hat walked behind us.
“Nice hat. I like it. I wanted to bring my hat but my wife here told me no one would be wearing their hat.” I mimed wearing a hat. “You know, you can change everything by just altering the tilt of your brim.”
“You mean like this,” she said and moved her hat to the side.
“Yeah. It’s like you’re suddenly way more introspective. Try pulling up the brim. See now you’re super fun.”
Like I keep saying over and over to everyone who will listen, intention matters. Instead of using compliments to make people feel good about themselves or to flatter, use compliments to give significance and focus to something, an object or idea, that you can use to PLAY together.
Check out my companion piece to this post: How to take a compliment.

Chapter 3: Car driving analogy of conversational confidence
By Wayne Elise

Imagine driving a car down a stretch of road. Think about how you steer the car. You probably don’t hold the steering wheel in one straight-ahead position and hope for the best. That’s not how you drive a car, even on a straight road. Instead, you make a series of counter-steering course corrections.
For example, as you drive, your mind, through your awareness, realizes your car is too far over to the right in your lane. It sends a signal to your muscles and you nudge the steering wheel left.
Course corrected. Much better.
But as it turns out, that course correction may have been too bold. Now the car is moving too far left in your lane. You need to push it a back right.
Okay, that’s better.
But you soon realize you should have pushed further. No worries. That’s easily corrected. Your hand turns the steering wheel to set an improved course.
But hold on. The road’s not straight up ahead. You’re now entering a slight left-hand curve. Not a problem. Your mind plots a trajectory and turns the wheel into it.
But that course isn’t precisely correct either. You turned too far. Turn back to the right. A bit more. There. Nice job. You’re driving like a profess…
Uh oh. There’s a pothole ahead. Better steer around it.
Good job. Now get back on track. You need to push to the right. That’s too far. Course-correct left.
And on and on.
Every input on the steering wheel fixes an errant course, yet sets an ultimately flawed course itself which will have to be adjusted after a time.
Until Google drives our cars, we have to accept this state of rolling imperfection so as to get us down the road.
Yet we all know drivers who seem to think otherwise. They worry about being perfectly centered in their lane. They make exaggerated, overly-conscious input corrections – the sort that makes their passengers want to throw-up, instead of the smooth, small, subtle, mostly subconscious, input corrections we associate with confident driving.
Conversations, especially with strangers, work in similar ways.
We talk a lot here at Charisma Arts about changing behavior to make you more charismatic. “Say this sentence instead of that sentence. Take action A instead of action B.” But it’s important to understand that conversations, at their best, are driven by a series of imperfect, pieces of behavior.
To understand this more thoroughly let’s examine a conversation between a guy and a girl.
He rubs his chin and looks over at her. “I believe love doesn’t exist but is purely a human construction created to justify our desire.”
He has shared a bit of his life philosophy. That’s a good thing. But the statement, as all statements do, creates unintended consequences.
The girl shakes her head. “That’s awful.”
“Perhaps it is,” he says.
“You won’t let yourself fall in love?”
“No. I’ll probably fall in love again in the future, though hopefully I’ll remember it’s nothing more than pleasant-feeling self-delusion.”
“That’s so wrong.”
He shrugs his shoulders.
“You’re the darkest boy I’ve ever met.”
Misinterpretations are a foregone conclusion. He doesn’t consider himself dark, rather light and fun. But he knows accurate impressions are only achieved over time. He’s patient.
He laughs. “I like your hands. You have strong hands for a girl.”
“I’m not sure how I should feel about that.”
He probably would have used a different wording having it over again. But c’est la vie.
“You should feel good. They’re sexy hands. The hands of a creator.”
“I do sculpt with them.”
“You do? Ahem, I mean, you do. I knew that. That’s what I’m talking about.”
She smiles. “They are kinda big though for a girl.”
“I wonder if I should tell you how I feel.”
“What?”
“Well, sometimes feelings are significant and sometimes their just silly.”
“What? Tell me.”
“Do you believe people meet for a reason?”
“I do.”
“Well, I never feel that way. I’m as rational and agnostic as a boy can be. But with you, right now, I want to believe.”
Her eyes grow larger. “That’s the most romantic thing I’ve ever heard.”
“Is it? I read it in on the back of a food truck.”
“Oh my god.”
“I’m kidding.” He steps closer, reaches out, takes her hand and leads her out to the patio.
***
This analogy might seem like a burden – another thing to worry about. But, in practice, you don’t have to think about any of this consciously. Just like driving, we don’t think too much about our actions – our eyes focus some distance ahead and our subconscious mostly makes the moment by moment decisions for us.
Here are some ways to use this analogy for your benefit:
* Develop the habit of kindness toward yourself. Be tolerant of your mistakes and miscues. They are inevitable and necessary to move your conversations forward. Don’t beat yourself up for swerving the car.
* Drop the need for initial ‘good’ responses. Needing a good response puts you in conflict with the law of romantic comedy which states that good relationships often start with conflict before finding rapport and intimacy.
Reacting badly towards a reaction that you hoped was different will often also scare your conversational partner. They will lose confidence in your ability to drive the interaction.
* Develop your situational awareness. That’s your ability to calculate your position relative to your goals using experience and the willingness to read the people you interact with. In certain situations, such as army officers dealing with angry villagers in Afghanistan, playing poker, picking up an attractive person or making the huge sale, your situational awareness can be critically important to judging the overall direction of your interactions.
* Pick the right intentions. Needy people often have short-term, ego-involved intentions. They look for personal approval for every piece of their behavior. That’s akin to focusing on the cars and lane dividers flowing past and forgetting to look ahead.
Confident people focus forward, up ahead and don’t sweat the bumps and position in their lane to much. Their goals tend to have be more far reaching such as developing trust or having fun, or building sexual desire.
* Be an artist. Remember when you were learning to drive and your mom or dad, or whomever was giving you driving lessons, and they freaked out when you turned the wheel harshly or stepped on the brake abruptly. They encouraged you to drive carefully. They knew your ability to recover was low. They wanted to keep you in bounds of what they perceived were recoverable positions.
But now you have more confidence in your driving abilities. You can swing the car harshly and swerve in your lane (not that I’m recommending you do this of course) and recover.
Just because a conversation is sliding at an awkward angle doesn’t necessarily mean its out of control. I bet you’ve seen those guys who drift their cars sideways. They do incredible things. Sometimes we swerve our conversation as a way of making creative moves in conversation. Often the best path between two points is not a straight line but rather the fun or scenic path. In social situations, efficiency is often not important. We can swerve our conversation so long as we can recover and head towards our goal.
* Act calm and confident. Your conversational partners often don’t know your capabilities. They don’t know what is positions are recoverable for you. And will often assume you are doing fine so long as you act as if you are doing fine.
Imagine yourself in your conversational partner’s shoes. Imagine you’re sitting in the passenger seat with a professional rally-car driver. I’m sure you’ve seen those. They are the guys who drive over wilderness tracks at break-neck speed.
Think about how you’d feel sitting there in the car with the trees and spectators flashing past. Probably scared but not terrified so long as you have confidence in your professional rally car driver.
But since this is an experience that’s not on par with normal driving, you can’t rely on normal driving clues to judge your safety. Instead, you look to the demeanor of your driver. If he looks concerned, “Oh shit! I shouldn’t have done that,” you’ll become terrified. But if he looks at ease, if he tells jokes and sips a latte while sliding around a corner, you’ll feel ‘relatively’ safe even given this extreme situation.
Conversation in stressful, uncommon situations, or with people we don’t know well, can feel foreign to our conversational partners. They can’t look for their usual conversational clues to judge the safety of the conversation. In these situations they’ll look to your demeanor for how they should feel. If you look concerned with the position of the conversation, they’ll become afraid things are heading toward embarrassment and want want to bail out. But if you appear calm and confident, they’ll feel safe as you drive the conversation toward a desirable goal.
Thanks for reading,
Wayne

Chapter 4: The search for papacito
By Wayne Elise
When Erika and I were last visiting Mexico we would walk down a street and often hear men call out, “Mamacita!”
On more than one occasion, I’d whip my head around looking for the culprit, but there was never anyone – just the street and alleys and people going about their business.
Finally Erika shook her head, “Why do you bother? There’s nothing you can do about it.”
I put my hands on my hips. I’m not trying to stop them. I’m fascinated. Who are these guys? What do they get out of it? And how do they disappear like ghosts?”
“They’re just little men. I’ve heard it since I was fourteen.”
“Really? Do girls in Mexico mature faster than girls in America?”
“Probably. I had a friend in school. She was twelve when she started dating a guy who was nineteen.”
“Wow. That would get you arrested nowadays.”
“They were kinda cute together.”
In some ways Mexico is like America but in other ways it’s like nowhere else.
I took my wife by the shoulders and looked deeply into her eyes. “I want to tell you something. This may shock you.” I took a breath. “My goal is to get a Mexican girl to call out papacito at me.”
She blinked.
“You know,” I said, “to balance the equation a bit.”
“Okay. Papacito.”
“You don’t count.”
“What? I don’t count?”
“You know what I mean. Your wife saying you’re a papcito is like your mom saying it. I want some girl I don’t know to call out papacito at me. Preferably a hot one.”
She burst with laughter.
“Come on. It could happen.”
“Ha. You don’t know Mexico.”
Everyday from then on, I didn’t leave my mother-in-laws house unless my boots were polished, my shirt tucked, and my hair slicked-back like Mauricio Garcés.
I posed outside the empanada stand. I sipped horchata in the park where the old women went to exercise. I helped college girls carry their books. I hung out by the gleaming silver water tower filled with Cajeta (Mexican carmel) and asked locals to take my picture.
I didn’t hear one ‘papacito’. Everyone seemed to be doing their best to ignore me though I was the tallest, palest guy in town. That made me itchy. I’d whip around suddenly and everyone would be staring at their shoes or looking up into the sky.
On the last day of our trip I threw up my hands. “Fuck it. It’s not going to happen.”
I left the house with my hair ungreased. I rinsed off the fake tan. I left my piteado belt and guitar at the hacienda. I went back to wearing my Primark skinny jeans, which are pretty fucking British.
I learned a valuable lesson that day. People are timid outside the framework of social expectation. Mexican guys are expected to call mamacita – so they do. While Mexican girls are expected to walk in groups with their friends and keep to themselves. So that’s what they do. There are things in cultures you can not work against.
“Or maybe you’re just a dufus-looking gringo,” said my friend Mike over G-chat.
That evening Erika and I stood facing each other in the town square in front of the water tower filled with Cajeta. The fairy lights flickered in the trees around us. A mariachi band struck up a lullaby.
“I feel like a failure,” I said.
She handed me a daisy. “It’s okay. You made a good try. But don’t worry. You’re my husband and I love you.”
But then a crowd of people pushed past us. We were briefly separated. Someone bumped up against me. My foot got stepped on.
“Pappacito!” a voice called out.
I spun around. “Who said that?”
But there was no one. The crowd pushed further down the street seemingly unaware of us. It was an ordinary Mexican Saturday evening. Vendors sold paletas de leche. Children chased each other around the fig tree. Women sat on the benches and talked while old men played checkers. Lovers walked hand in hand. A cat stalked a pigeon. The Mariachi band added in an electric guitar and played Stairway to Heaven.
“My god,” I said to Erika. “Did you hear that Pappacito?”
She stepped closer. “I did. Congratulations.”
I played it back in my mind. There was a glitch. “Did that papacito sound ironic to you? Do you think she, who ever she was, was joking? Was it a pity papacito?”
“Of course not. You look great.”
I fingered my old Coke t-shirt and looked down at my dusty shoes. I looked up and squinted my eyes at her. “I don’t know. It feels like a setup.”
“Don’t look at me. Come on. Let’s go buy some empanadas.”
On the way there, she got like ten mamacitas.
****
People are more likely to reveal their attraction when they have a feeling of security. That feeling can come via many ways. Sometimes by writing it down in a note passed through a friend. Or by drinking three beers. Or by leveraging social expectation. Or by hiding behind a tree.
Unfortunately that matters little to the person receiving the attention. They care about their own feelings of security.
A woman can feel scared when getting cat-called on the street. She can feel alone and out-numbered. She can feel intimidated when a guy walks up to her in a club, leers over her and tells her she’s hot. She can feel panic at the thought of someone showing interest in her on the subway. She can feel trapped if her date uses momentum to escalate physically.
In rare circumstances men can also feel a perception of power imbalance that makes a show of attraction unwanted.
One of the foundational principles I teach is the idea that showing attraction is okay, sometimes helpful, so long as the person receiving that attention feels they are in a position of power.
Towards that end I teach all manner of Jedi tricks to give the other person a feeling of empowerment. Sometimes we use distance by moving our body backward, sometimes we slide down in our seat so our eyes are lower than hers. Sometimes we make it explicit that though we may find a girl attractive, we are NOT hitting on her. “I wouldn’t do that without knowing your relationship situation and frankly how to hit on you. Everyone is different. Everyone has different needs and turn-ons. You might be in a committed relationships. You might be recently broken-up. You might be into bondage or threesomes or none of the above. We might be better off as lovers or friends or perhaps I should introduce you to my amazing friend Jack. Hitting on someone is trying to make something happen and I can’t do that until we have enough trust that you can tell me your story.  Otherwise hitting on you would be an insult – like trying to cram a square peg into a round hole.”
You can probably guess how most people respond to this. They’re stunned. The truth and candor of it all hits them hard. They are only left to nod their heads. Try it for yourself. Take on this idea. Play with the combination of sexual expression and empowerment. Fuck your own feelings of security. See it from the other person’s point of view. Make them feel safe and powerful and then hit on them. Put a dagger in their hands aimed at your heart and then say you want to take them back to your place and spend the rest of the night making love. “And if you feel uncomfortable while you’re there or change your mind, it’s easy to get a cab from my flat. I would be okay with that. But I think it would be hot spending the night together figuring out how to make each other feel a maximum of pleasure.”
Looking back to Mexico it now makes sense to me. I was actually more likely to get my papacito when I didn’t look important or slick or powerful in any way. When I looked a little grungy a girl, some girl, felt empowered enough to respond. At least that’s the narrative I have in my head.
****
Back in LA.
We were riding my Vespa down Western Avenue towards Echo Park with Erika behind me when all this again popped into my mind.
We stopped at a red light and I turned my head. “When we were in Mexico did you, or did you not, pay one of your friends to call out papacito at me?”
She pushed her helmet into the back of mine. “I’m not saying either way. But you ARE gullible.”
“What? Me? No way. I’ve been around this world more times than I care to remember. I’m not easily fooled babe.”
“Ha. You believed that the water tower was filled with Cajeta.”
“It’s not?”
“That’s just what we tell tourists.”
“Oh. Rats.”
As always thanks for reading and I look forward to your comments and suggestions.

Chapter 5: Girls and dogs and coffee
By Wayne Elise
Bob and I step out the door, carrying our coffee – in as sexy way as we can manage, which is probably not very sexy.
The sun hits our faces. We pause to reconnoitre.
Two girls are sitting, leaning in toward each other, at a sidewalk table, talking. Their foreheads nearly touch. They fit my target demographic: young, trim, smart looking, likes to drink coffee.
I wink at Bob. “Watch and learn.” I strut like a cat toward the girls. You can imagine the music playing in the background: suave, bumpy, possibly by Elle Varner.
Strut, strut, strut, adjust the brim of my fedora, strut, strut, strut. Okay, I wasn’t really wearing a fedora, but I think it helps the picture here.
I’m anticipating popping their perimeter bubble: As I walk towards them, they’ll look up to make a sort of friend-or-foe visual check. This is a reflex we can anticipate in a number of social situations.
Plan A.
When they look up, I’ll seize the moment by reacting to their eye contact and then rapidly build the interaction from there. File this one under Mind Trick. Hit the timing right and the effect feels seamless. After five minutes of conversation I’ll often ask a person how the conversation began. They can’t trace it back to its origins. “Well, we were… No. I asked you… That’s not right. I’m not sure. Feels as if we’ve been talking always.”
I walk towards them, anticipating my moment. They can’t miss me. I’m a tall guy dressed in primary colors and pretending he’s a cat. But as I get in range, nothing happens. No look up. No eye contact. No perceptible acknowledgment of my existence. They’re locked in conversation – and The Universe, rotating around them, can get fucked.
Plan B.
I stop and pretend to throw a pretend ball to the German Shepard mix lying at their feet. But he ignores me too. He’d rather watch the line of ants stream past his nose carrying the disassembled remnants of a black hawk down.
This is so embarrassing. But these things happen.
Go to Plan C.
We divert to the next table trying to make it seem as if that was our intention all along. “Yes, this place looks like where we want to be my friend. We shall sit at this table here.”
Two dudes out at the cafe staring at each other quietly. Real normal. Not suspicious at all.
But the girls don’t seem to notice our awkwardness. Their talk continues unabated.
Bob raises his eyebrows at me. I shrug.
I like to have a rep of social calibration. I’ve learned to trust my instincts. We could interrupt verbally but that doesn’t feel right here. Besides, the nonverbal approach openers are how granddad did it, that’s how I do it, and it’s worked out pretty well so far.
We will wait, be patient and something will come up.
But nothing does.
The girls talk. And talk. And talk. Actually, it feels as if they’re in an episode of The Girls. They’re talking about hipster Brooklyn stuff that I’m sure they got off Lena Dunham’s Twitter feed. I know, because that’s where I get my hipster Brooklyn stuff.
Plan D. Heck, I didn’t even know there was a Plan D.
I spot a couple of old swingers sitting nearby who have a beagle lying their feet which is the most friendly breed in the world. No beagle has ever mauled anybody. That’s why they make lousy guard dogs. They’ll be more than happy to lick a burglar’s face and point out where you stash your valuables.
Bob and I abandon the girls and walk over to the people with the beagle. The beagle people smile and nod.
I throw down some dog mime. “I like your dog. He’s just sitting there acting cool. But I bet he’s planning a caper.”
The man laughed. “Maybe. His name’s Duke. He loves two things in this world – people and fried chicken.”
Duke nuzzled my hand.
“That’s a tough sounding name for such a friendly dog.”
“He strives to live up to it, but fails miserably.”
“Is it okay to pet him?”
“It sure is.”
“Ow wow. He feels soft.”
I look over and one of the girls is watching us. I react to this by smiling, waving and calling over to her. “I hope your dog isn’t jealous.”
“She might be,” says the girl. “She gets jealous easy.”
“Wait a second. Your dog’s a girl dog? Duke here’s a boy dog. Perhaps they should have a doggy date.” I look up to the man. “Mind if I take Duke over to socialize.”
He laughed. “Okay by me if its okay by him.”
I pick up the leash and lead Duke over to the girls. The dogs lick each others’ faces. The people smile sheepishly at each other but slowly open up.
The girl with the dog looks at me as if she knew what I was up to all along. But then she smiles and says, “It’s wonderful meeting you. I couldn’t help noticing the way you were carrying your coffee earlier.”
 

Chapter 6: Relationships are the new mission impossible
Version en español de este articulo.
People have been asking me for relationship advice lately. I don’t hold myself out as an expert in this field, but I do know some things. I’ve been married twice, lived with girlfriends, been in long distance relationships, been the third party for women in open relationships, done a bit of swinging, lived in other countries with girlfriends, had pots thrown at my head, cheated on girlfriends (not proud of that) and been cheated on. I’ve loved and lost, and loved again.
I’ve made every relationship mistake known to humankind and continue to invent new ones. I’ve also reached my mid forties and have had the benefit of seeing how people, relationships and expectations change over time.
My dad asked my mom to marry him on the second date. I find that amazing. Who does that? Guess he made the right decision though. Mom says they’re just as in love today as they were fifty years ago. But it’s hard to imagine that sort of thing happening nowadays. The world’s changed.
We move around a lot more now. I don’t know about you but I’ve lived in six places in the last ten years. Ann Arbor – Aix en Provence, France – Boulder – New York – Los Angeles – hotels. We might try Seattle one day or live in Mexico for a time.
All this moving around challenges a relationship. Ironically, in my experience, it gives a couple too much together time. It can take awhile to settle in and build a social network, to find activities and people to hang with. You can easily spend all your time together instead of doing the work of meeting new people.
I’m a believer that interaction and even flirtation with other people, outside of your relationship is good for your relationship. We pick up ideas and ways of communicating and experiences that we can bring back to our partner. This keeps things fresh and interesting. A relationship can’t just feed on itself. It must grow and change.
Another big difference from our parent’s relationship challenges and our own is that we live in the age of the smart phone and easy communication. In the past, the only way to keep up with an ex was through actual stalking them or if fated by the gods you might run into them years after a breakup.
“Hi Bob,” she says.
“Wow Carol, it’s been years. You look great. What have you been up to?”
“I’ve got two kids and a dog.”
“Nice. Want to fool around for old time’s sake?”
“Well, I’ve got to pick up the dog from the groomers. Then soccer practice with my oldest. I can squeeze you in between four and four thirty.”
“Uh, never mind.”
But now it’s like relationships never end. We can peer into the lives of every ex, every hook up, every crush we’ve ever had with Facebook. It’s easy to reach out via an SMS and stick ourselves into the thoughts of someone half a world away at any moment we choose.
It’s difficult committing to another person in this environment.
Years ago I asked my wise and good friend Josh why he decided to commit and marry his lovely wife Val. He told me, “You got to close some doors to fully go through others.”
He was right. But it’s hard to imagine anyone fully closing their doors when it’s now so easy to keep them open.
Relationships have become a competitive sport through the photos we post on Facebook and SMS to our friends. Erika and I were happy with our Christmas tree until we saw Jeremy and Julia’s Christmas tree on Facebook. It looks so much fancier than our little Charlie Brown tree.
“Should we add lights? More ornaments?” Erika asked.
“I don’t know if it could bear the extra load. Maybe there’s a way to arrange an accident for their tree instead.”
Porn. Porn. Porn. There, I got your attention. The pervasiveness of internet porn has changed everyone’s expectations for their sex lives. Couples who’ve sexually bloomed during the age of free internet porn have high expectations for sex. They want to try what they’ve seen on their computer screens. I’m continually amazed at the number of young people embarking on open relationships, looking for threesome partners, attending dominatrix parties and exploring alternative lifestyles. (not complaining about it of course   )
None of these new options are intrinsically bad. Much of it is incredibly fun. But they run counter to many of our romantic notions. We want exciting sex lives but we also want to love and be loved in beautiful and romantic ways.
All these expectations and options puts pressure on our relationship decision making.
Somethings gotta give.
Case #1 The Fiancee
I had a friend contact me recently who I hadn’t heard from for a couple years. He was looking for advice.
“I’m getting married in ten days,” he says.
“Congratulations,” I told him.
“Thanks. But there’s a problem. I met someone else on the night of my bachelor party. She’s a wonderful girl and I can’t stop thinking about her.”
“Did you have sex?”
“Not all the way.”
“You still love your fiancee?”
“Of course. But this other girl. It’s like we just click. But I don’t want to cheat.”
“Are you on her Facebook? Send me her photo.”
He sent me the relevant link. I compared both photos. The fiancee and this new girl. The new girl was a little younger, a little prettier.
“How many people are coming to your wedding?”
“Fifteen hundred.”
“Oh my god. You can’t cancel.”
“I know.”
“But you can’t marry someone unless you’re a hundred percent sure.”
“What should I do?”
“Have you considered suicide? Ha. Just kidding. Don’t do that. Let’s think this through. You’ve been involved with your girlfriend for five years. Some of the excitement is worn off. Now, you’re getting the bees with the honey. You know when you first meet someone you see all the wonderful things about them. They seem perfect. They are on their best behavior. If you went off with this new girl, it might be all honey for awhile but those bees find you eventually. Keep that in mind when you compare these two.”
“Yes. I know that.”
“I don’t think you ought to cheat on your fiancee but maybe you should arrange to spend more time with this new girl in a neutral situation. No sex, no alcohol. Really try to get a sense for who she is. Usually when I can’t make a decision between two courses of seemingly equal value, I take it as a sign to gather more information. What does this girl want in the future? What sort of values does she hold? You might find she’s completely not the right person.”
“I could do that.”
“But on the other hand, if you see each other, you’re going to end up sleeping together and that’ll skew the whole thing. Shit. You’re fucked. Good luck.”
Sometimes there’s no easy answer.
Case #2 The Ambitious One
I have a client who signed up for emergency phone coaching recently.
“My girlfriend and I have been discovering our sexuality together,” JB said.
I didn’t want to ask but I was pretty sure that meant she had taken his virginity. Finally! This was cause for celebration. I called out to Erika, “Honey, put a kettle on to boil will ya?”
JB texted me a photo of his girlfriend. I showed it to Erika. She nodded. “Not bad. He should be grateful.”
“What do you mean? Grateful because he’s bald? Because he’s pudgy? Because he walks with a limp?”
“He’s a nice guy. How long did it take him to get this girl?”
“He’s been working on trying to pick up girls for, let me think… a long freaking time. Lately though he’s made breakthroughs with using his sense of humor, taking things more lightly, the effective use of roofies.”
She didn’t laugh. “I just think he should be careful not to lose the one girl he has.”
I shrugged my shoulders and talked into the phone. “Sorry about that JB. Erika and I were debating your love life. So what’s going on?”
“It’s really great. I have to thank you. I wouldn’t have been able to get my girlfriend interested if it wasn’t for Charisma Arts.”
“Yeah whatever. Word on the street is she liked your butt.”
“No. Seriously.”
“Fine. Charisma Arts will take credit for ten percent. No more. I don’t want the responsibility if she turns out to be a serial killer.”
“Ha. Okay. It’s just really nice having a woman to be close to.”
“Like holding hands and giving cards?”
“Yes.”
“Yuck. I’m going to be sick. But I guess you deserve a relationship. Good for you. So what’s the problem? You said this was an emergency. Did you get her pregnant?”
“It’s nothing like that, thankfully. Here’s the situation. I have lots of friends who are girls now because of everything I did with Charisma Arts before meeting my girlfriend.”
“Let me guess. You’re girlfriend doesn’t like these strange girls hanging around the pool?”
“No pool unfortunately.”
“Damn. You’re destroying my vision of your playboy lifestyle.”
“I have this friend Kikki. She’s very flirtatious but we’re just friends. Yesterday she comes over and we’re hanging out with my girlfriend there. The three of us.”
“Please tell me this story ends with everyone in bed.”
“No such luck. But Kikki and I are very comfortable with each other. She helps herself to food in the refrigerator. We’re that sort of friends. I thought everything was fine. But my girlfriend felt otherwise. After Kikki left she said I didn’t respect her.”
“Why?”
“She thought I was flirting in front of her with Kikki and letting Kikki talk to me in what she called a familiar way.”
“How did you respond to that?”
“I apologized.”
“Like with your hand over your heart?”
“No. Just a regular apology.”
“You crossed your fingers secretly behind your back, right?”
“I did not think of doing that.”
“Oh too bad.”
“She also got mad when I checked out another girl at a Halloween party.”
“Baby doll from Sucker Punch?”
“No. It was sexy nurse.”
“Well that’s silly. How can you resist checking out a sexy nurse? How often do we even see a sexy nurse in real life?”
“There’s something else you should know. I let my girlfriend move in with me.”
“I’m sorry. There must be something wrong with my ear. Too many of Erika’s wet willies. I thought you said you let her move in with you.”
“She was sleeping on friends’ couches.”
“She was homeless?”
“Not homeless exactly. She was living with her parents but she couldn’t take her mom anymore.”
“I see.”
“I had dinner at their house once.”
“How’d that go?”
“Her mom said she did not think I was right for her. Maybe I joked around too much.”
“She said this in front of you? That’s not cool.”
“Her mom is what you call outspoken.”
“They should be happy that their daughter is with someone she likes. Someone who’s kind. You’re a wonderful person. I think that’d come across.”
“Thanks. That’s nice of you to say.”
“I’m not trying to be nice. I’m just pointing out the truth. Okay, I’m starting to get the picture here. Conservative parents, forbidden relationship, I don’t even want to ask about the frog.”
“Huh?”
“Never mind. It’s all very Shakespearean. How about your girlfriend’s job situation?”
“She’s still waiting on her work permit. It might take a couple months.”
“Right. And then she has to find a job. That’ll take time. How does she support herself?”
“Her dad gives her money now and then for food and such.”
“Okay. The pieces are coming together. I feel like Sherlock Holmes. So what do you want in a relationship?”
“Eventually, I’d like to have multiple wives.”
I was stunned.
“Wayne? Are you there? Wayne? Hello?”
Erika walked by, “Are you okay? You look like you saw a ghost.”
“JB wants to have multiple wives.”
“Like a harem?”
“I guess. Like those people in Utah maybe.”
“You really want to have multiple wives JB?”
“Yes. I uh, I think so. It’s a dream of mine.”
“You’re the last guy I’d expect to say that. But it’s cool. You know what you want and people should respect that.”
“I don’t think he’s thought this through,” said Erika. “He thinks its going to be like amazing for him but they’d probably demanding from him all the time.”
“Yeah, it does seem like a lifestyle choice for super rich guys with a staff of assistants. JB, you’d have to remember multiple anniversaries and birthdays. Have you considered the work you’d have to put in to that many relationships?”
“I haven’t considered that but I think it’s still something I want. But that can be later. I mostly want to arrange some threesomes.”
“I take it back. Maybe the mother was right about you. You’re a bad influence. Ha. Nice, throwing a plot twist into your story.”
“I’m just doing what you taught about being specific about my desire.”
“Really? And that’s working? Ahem, I mean, of course and for sure it works” I cleared my throat. “Okay. I’m ready to give you my thoughts.”
“I’m excited to know what those are.”
“You can take one of two paths. The first path – go all in. Forget flirting with other women. Instead use that energy to better understand your girlfriend, to discover new ways to love her.”
“Wouldn’t that mean I was settling?”
“You will always settle. It’s just a matter of when and why. There’s no perfect girl or perfect situation. Waiting for perfection is a choice to avoid living your life.”
“Yes. But I want other things too.”
“Set those aside for now. Let’s try to look at your relationship from a different angle. This girl’s conservative. She wants you all to herself. Are these things bad? Maybe not. Maybe she really likes you. In some of the sexiest relationships, I’ve known, the couple have eyes only for each other. It’s the Goldie and Kurt effect.”
“The Goldie what?”
“Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell. They’re actors. They laugh nonstop together. It’s like a force of nature. They’ve been together for thirty years and yet people see them together and are inspired. People want what they have. But for them, it’s as if no one else in the room exists.”
“I do not see how a threesome would be possible.”
I shook my head. “It may or may not. But that’s not the point. It’s all about each other. You don’t even think about other women. You’re too wrapped up in each other.”
“I’m interested in hearing about the second option?”
“What? You don’t like the first one?”
“Ha. You paint a nice picture but I will have to think about it.”
“Okay, so the second option is death.”
“I like how you always put jokes in Wayne. Somehow it makes things lighter in my mind.”
“I’m not joking. Death’s an option. Okay, fine. Let’s take death off the table. But I’m glad you like my silly jokes. As you know, nothing’s so important as to lose your sense of humor.”
“Yes, I’ve found out with women that when I joke around I get a better response.”
I took a sip of my coffee. “Do you know who Charlotte Bronte was?”
“I feel like I should know this.”
“Yes you should. She wrote Jane Eyre which is considered a classic. Anyway, she was smart. I love a quote of hers. She wrote, conventionality is not morality. Your girlfriend is trying to confuse you. It may not be conventional for someone in a relationship to flirt with other people but it’s not immoral.
The second options is hard. You have to engage your girlfriend in a candid conversation. Tell her your apology was a mistake. Tell her your relationship can stand up to a little flirtation. It can grow stronger by the challenge. You two freely chose to date each other. You didn’t do it out of obligation. Why change that now? When you come back together after flirting with other people, you enhance the feeling of choice. You feel flush with options but yet you chose to be together. That renewal of choice is sexy.
People need to get over themselves. There will always be prettier girls. There will be more charming guys. If you stay together long enough, you’ll march toward dust together. What works to keeps couples together is not appearance or humor or money or threats. It’s the quality of your relationship. You follow me? It’s not the people.”
“And how do we have a quality relationship?”
“By creating acceptance, openness, honesty and freedom of sexual expression. Keeping away feelings of obligation, control, fear and secrecy.”
“I am not sure how she would respond to all this.”
“Trust me. This is going to go down like coal in her stocking. If you spelled this out to her earlier, when you began dating, we’d be having a different conversation. But telling her now, it’s going to feel as if you’re pulling the rug out from under her feet.
Try to remember, as she’s yelling and throwing things at your head, that she does like you. At some point she chose you. You’re on the same side. Try to make her see that this is not about you wanting to just flirt with other women. It the best way you can keep your relationship fresh and fun.
Explain to her that limiting your sexual expression will only give her a temporary feeling of security. But that sort of security is a mirage. People never really give up their sexuality. They just suppress it. And that suppression creates all sort of yucky behavior such as cheating with your barista or addiction to photos of girls with ninja swords.
You want to have the sort of relationship where you both can express your sexuality to each other. It’s part of who you are. You should be okay hearing every dirty thought in each other’s heads, even if some of those thoughts make you feel uncomfortable.”
“I understand things better now. I guess I have to decide which path to take.”
“Yes. It’s up to you. But honestly from what you’ve told me, I think you two want very different things. And I’m also afraid that because of her living situation and lack of options that she might ultimately go along with what you want. That can be bad if she does it for the wrong reasons. Beware of that. You don’t want to create long-term resentment. She might kill you one day in your sleep. I’d be way more comfortable with your situation if she wasn’t as dependent on you as she seems.”
“Yes. I’ve been thinking about that. Thank you Wayne.”
“Good. Talk to you soon.”
I hung up the phone and walked into the living room.
“What did you tell him?” asked Erika.
“That he should break up with her.”
“You told him that?”
“In so many words.”
“It sounds like they want different things.”
“Yeah. That’s the root of it. Can you believe it? He wants multiple wives. Is that even legal?”
“I don’t know. I think he should be realistic though. Why do all these guys think they’re going to get super models?”
“Super models have to date somebody. Why not?”
“Super models date photographers or famous people because that’s who they’re around.”
“True. Damn access. Anyway, you never know. Maybe JB’s multiple wife thing will happen. He’s the main character of his life and he’s surprised me before.”
“Do you think she’s just using him?”
I rubbed my chin. “I’m guessing not. She just wants the traditional thing. She values security and probably doesn’t want to know the truth. Some people like to stick their heads in the ground. I’m glad we’re an enlightened couple. Aristotle said…”
She held a hand up. “Are you going to do the dishes?”
“I’m trying to tell you something important here.”
“Uh, you promised to do the dishes last night.”
“Okay fine”
She winked at me. “And then we can go out and you can flirt with girls.”
I love my wife.
“I think I’m going to write something about this.”
“About JB?”
“About relationships. Decisions in relationships are really fucking hard.”
“So, what’s the point?”
“There’s no point other than it’s hard. People should know they have company. Lot’s of people are dealing with these things. It’s the new Mission Impossible.”

Chapter 7: Listening with your face
By Wayne Elise
Version en español de este articulo.
You might say I’ve been around the block. Erika calls me refurbished. In any case, I’ve learned a few truths about people in my time.
One of those truths is that we don’t seduce people with our words. Rather we seduce them with our attention.
The behaviors we pay attention to tend to increase. And those we ignore tend to decrease. That’s why listening is so important.
If you listen well enough you can become addicting in a similar way to how video games are addicting. I’m sure you’ve played a video game in some capacity. Think about the psychological workings at play. The player pushes their joystick to the right and their character opens a treasure chest on the screen. REWARD. They walk to a door and press a button. The door opens. REWARD. A interesting monster comes out for the player to fight. REWARD. They kill the monster. They get a REWARD. It’s an addictive experience. People have literally died of thirst and hunger because they couldn’t walk away from a video game.
You can be the video game. Listening with your face is a step in that direction. It’s not just listening with your ears, nor is it parroting back what the other person says as in ‘active listening’. Those ways are boring. People respond better to fast-paced, instantly, immersive interactions.
As you watch your conversational partner speak, notice that they move their head, lift their eyebrows, look down and away and back to you again, they talk with their hands, bite their lip – lots of movements, all sorts of movements. There are over 600 muscles in the human body and people don’t keep them still while they talk.
As listeners we usually don’t think about this. We just wait our turn to talk – maybe throw in a ‘yeah’ now and then. We miss the dance that’s offered us.
The way the brain works, people connect cause and effect when two actions follow each other closely in time. If I bang my knee on the table and the portrait of your uncle Jesse falls off the wall, you’ll connect the two events, “What the hell Wayne!” even though the two actions may have nothing to do with each other. Conversely, we tend to dismiss the causality of an event if the cause tends to be too far in the past. You will conveniently forget about the earthquake tremor a month ago that possibly loosened the wall fixtures.
This is what you can do. Watch people when they talk. They bob their head – you move your head in some way. They look away from you and then look back – you reward them with a smile or lift of your eyebrows. Follow their hands with your eyes when they express with them then come back to the other person’s eyes. Move your eyes to their mouth when they bite their lip. These are rewards for expressions directed toward you.
These rewards don’t necessarily have to match and mostly they don’t. Mirroring is a silly concept after all. Your rewards just have to follow your partner’s movements closely in time to create the feeling of causality.
This type of listening can create a strong feeling of connection. Be careful how you employ it. You may not want to connect that strongly in some situations of course.
Note: I find small movements best. They can be almost imperceptible and still work. The effectiveness comes out of the timing being immediate, not the the size of the reward.

Chapter 8: Misinterpretations
By Wayne Elise

Version en español de este articulo.
A few days ago I was sitting behind a table at a sidewalk cafe talking to my friend Lael. She does the singer/songwriter thing. But she could easily be walking a catwalk. People describe her as stunning. But what I dig most about her is she’s a loner – like everybody cool I know.
We were wrapping up our conversation. She was standing, leaning, eager to go meet up with her sorta boyfriend at the day job he holds grinding coffee beans and wearing hipster hats.
But then the topic of her creative endeavors held her there. She described writing music. “The lyrics have to make sense. The tone has to match the chords. It should rhyme and be interesting. And I have to be careful so I don’t compromise the original inspiration. People think it’s an easy job. And sometimes it is. Sometimes it just flows. But mostly it’s just hard.”
“I can only imagine,” I said. “So many things to intertwine. No wonder musicians do drugs.”
She laughed. “Anyway. How about you? What are you writing in that notebook?”
“I’m working on a short story.”
“What’s it about.”
“It’s based off my favorite book, the Hobbit. I take characters from that story – such as Gandalf The Wizard and put them in Echo Park.”
“Sounds interesting. What’s the…”
At that moment, as if conjured by a wizard, a strange guy appeared from my right. “Can I get a quick opinion about GMO?” he said.
GMO? Genetically modified organisms? I hadn’t heard that opener before. Interesting twist. But his timing sucked.
Lael looked at me for guidance. She’s no killer. For all her awesomeness, she can’t slit a guy’s throat.
“Come back in five minutes,” I told the guy.
“Sure,” he said. “No problem.” He walked off, back the way he came.
“Thanks,” she said to me.
“I doubt he’ll come back. But if he does I’m going to tell him I just want things to be like they are in science fiction movies. Anyway, you were just leaving. We can talk later.”
We said our goodbyes and she walked off to my left.
The opinion-opener guy never returned. Apparently he lost his interest in genetically modified organisms without a hot girl in the picture.
I opened my notebook and found my pen.
Later, two girls playing the five finger game tugged each other past my table. One turned and caught me staring. She scowled, pulled her hat down over her ears and turned to whisper in her girlfriend’s ear.
Fuck. They thought I was staring because they’re a lesbian couple. No. I was devouring them because they looked delicious. I may be a pervert but I’m no tourist. Alas there was nothing to do about it. I sighed, picked up my pen and tried to re-imagine Gandolf the wizard impressing the Echo Park crowd with his smoke rings.
Later, I took off my reading glasses and slid them back into their case. The world drifted back into focus. Cars were switching on their headlights. Morning doves were heading home and night owls were starting to peek out from their rafters.
My bike is a night time death machine. It’s the color invisible. No lights or reflectors. My single front brake is symbolic. I don’t wear a helmet. It was time to ride home before dark.
I collected my things and walked my bike to the corner. I like to have free space to mount the beast.
I spotted the opinion-opener guy. He was interviewing Bluebeard the local pirate on the sidewalk. He had a camera, tripod and television crew.
Fuck. I felt bad for judging the guy as being shallow and trying to hit on my friend. He was just doing his job. He was some sort of journalist, possibly Nordic.
I waited a few minutes for him to wrap up with Bluebeard and I walked over. “Do you still want opinions about GMO,” I asked him. “I’d be glad to help.”
He passed the microphone to a helper. “Thanks. But we got enough.”
“Oh good. I’m off then. Enjoy your stay in our country.”
“What? I’m American.”
“Oh. My mistake. Sorry.” I turned to walk away.
“There is one thing you could do,” he called after me. “That girl you were with. Tell me, is she single? What’s her name?”
I walked back and hit him with a karate chop to the carotid artery. The flow of blood to his brain stopped and he crumpled to the pavement.
Just kidding.
I just shook my head, mounted Silver Streak and peddled home.
On the way, I passed a four-car accident. Cops had closed off the streets to other cars but I weaved around the barrier.
I heard a guy holding a towel to his bloody forehead talking to a police officer. “That car’s supposed to be turning if he’s in that lane.”
“Not necessarily,” the cop said. “You can’t presume that.”
I continued to peddle up the hill.
“I texted you,” Erika said when I walked into the house. “I was worried about you riding in the dark. I heard lots of sirens. I’m glad you’re okay. How was hanging out with Lael?”
I leaned my bike against the living room wall. “Good. She liked the brownies you baked. At least, I thought so. Perhaps she’s a secret agent and hates brownies. Maybe she takes out her false teeth and rips the rubber mask off her face and she’s ugly. I have no idea.”
Erika looked me as if I was the weirdest person in the world.
I squinted my eyes. “After dinner I’m challenging you to a battle of wits, Princess Bride style. We can use that Trader Joe’s wine we bought.”
“I didn’t see the movie. What sort of battle of wits?”
“It’s all about guessing the other person’s intentions. It’ll be fun. We just need to find some poison.”
“Uh, okay.”
We played and I lost. But luckily I’ve developed an immunity to Iocane Powder.

Chapter 9: Video: Ask a Juggler. To confess love or not?
Feel free to embed this video on your own website.
By Wayne Elise
People have been asking my opinion on telling their friend they’ve developed romantic feelings. I generally approach these situations like Sherlock Holmes. I ask lots of questions. Every case is different and I’m hesitant to share blanket advice.
However I usually advocate proceeding with caution in throwing words such as LOVE around. Words like that are nuclear weapons. I’ve made the mistake myself and scared some cool girls away. It’s easy to become confused in the fog of attraction. Real love takes time to develop and usually happens in a reciprocal fashion when the moment’s right for it to bloom.
What we’re often dealing with is infatuation. That’s a self-induced hypnotic state that has little to do with the real person we’re targeting with our feelings. It’s usually better to chill out and pursue something more sexual first.
But as always, every situation is different and we should seek to understand the actual person we’re dealing with, not just the effigy we’ve constructed in our head.
Put your question in the comments if you’d like me to answer it in another video.
All the best,
Wayne

Chapter 10: Just Ask
By Wayne Elise

Version en español de este articulo.
I’m pondering which super power would be the best to give you.
Being able to fly would be great – for a day. But then you’d realize it’s lonely up there. Airliners and birds make lousy conversational partners.
Being able to become invisible would turn you into a voyeur. That’s not good.
Super-stretch power would be fun, but you’d spend your days plucking cereal boxes off grocery shelves for little old ladies.
No. The best super power would be the ability to read minds. Think about what you could do with that.
You’d know the person crossing the street feels hopeless and you could intercept them at the corner, tell them tomorrow will be better, give them a flower. You’d know the cook spat in the soup and you could order the quiche instead. You’d know that your father really loves you. Sniff Sniff.
The sexual possibilities though are where the real goldmine lies. You could fulfill for people their perfect sexual fantasies.
“What are those?” she asks.
You smile down at her. “Velvet cuffs. Easy on the skin but deceptively strong. Let me have your wrists.”
“Okay. Sure. What’s that?”
“A blindfold. I’ll just tie this over your eyes like so.”
“Wow. I can’t see a thing.”
“That’s the point. Do you trust me?”
“Yes.”
“Good.”
“I hear someone moving around. Who else is in the room?”
“That’s my assistant Natasha. She’s highly trained in the erotic arts.”
“I always wanted something like this to.. Oh. That feels nice. What’s that?”
“Sorry, that’s the cat licking your toes. I’ll get him down. Oh wait. I’m getting the vibe you kinda dig it. Natasha, we’ll be keeping the cat.”
“This is so hot. I’m excited”
“I thought you’d like it.”
“How do you know what turns me on so well? Are you projections from my subconscious? Is this a dream?”
“Like in that movie Inception?”
“Yeah. Are you Leonardo Dicaprio?”
“I should be so lucky. No. We’re real. I just get you.”
“But how? It’s like you can read my mind.”
“Muhahahaha.”
“I love evil laughs too.”
“Of course you do. Natasha, can we get the hot wax in here already please?”
How awesome would reading minds be? You could stop playing games and get on with the pleasure of hooking up. You’d walk around with a smile on your face as you delve into the most delicious parts of people’s desires.
You may be surprised to learn that I can give you the ability to read people’s hidden desires. All you need do is send three million dollars to my Paypal account at the bottom of this page.
Ha. Just kidding. I’m going to share this ability with you free of charge.
Are you ready?
Here’s what you do.
Just ask.
That’s right. Just ask. I find this to be the most awesome method for discovering someone’s hidden desires.
What? You thought there’d be more to it? A space age, plutonium-powered device? We tried that and came up with something similar to Google’s virtual reality Goggles – useful, but there’s no way we’re wearing those things in public.
It’s simpler, more graceful, to just ask.
A guy and a girl sit on a curb talking as a bicycle rally pedals past.
“Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?” he asks.
“That depends,” she says.
“Depends on what?”
“Depends on the question.”
“What gets your toes smiling?”
“My toes smiling?”
“What turns you on?”
“I’ve never heard it put that way before.”
“I’m glad to be the first then.”
“Hmmm… let me think about it.” She absentmindedly drew a face with a stick in the sand that had collected in the gutter. “Okay. I’ll tell you. But promise you won’t be judgmental?”
“Promise.”
She took a deep breath. “Midget porn.”
He stopped drumming his fingers on the side of his legs. “Midget porn?”
“Yes. It’s amazing. It’s all about the clothes. The midgets have a hard time with their buttons and zippers. I guess their fingers are too little. So the people making the videos dress them up in costumes and it takes forever to get their clothes off. The sexual tension is addicting.”
“Really?”
“I’ll lend you my collection.”
He notices her pinkie finger twitching. “It must say gullible on my forehead,” he says.
She laughed. “Oh yeah – it does. You didn’t know that?”
“I believed you for a second.”
“More than a second I think.”
“Let’s just keep my gullibility between us, shall we?”
“Too late. I just sent a text to your coworkers, your boss, your family, your dog.”
“That’s where you’re mistaken. My dog doesn’t care about me anymore since he went to live with my ex and her new boyfriend.”
“Oh, I’m sorry.”
“It’s okay. I want him to be happy. He lives on a farm and has horses and pigs as friends and gets to chase chickens.”
“So what gets your toes smiling?” she asks.
“Well, you didn’t really answer the question yourself. But that’s fine. I’ll share.”
“I did answer. I love midgets.”
“Whatever.” He tapped his empty paper cup against the curb. “I may need more coffee. I’m kind of addicted.”
“I used to be the same way. But I had to stop.”
“I could never stop. I’ve tried. It’s impossible. Did you know eight cups of coffee in an hour is enough to kill someone? I like to flirt with the edge. I’ll drink seven cups. Get a nice buzz going, a little hallucination.”
“You’re changing the subject.”
“I guess I am. I like skinny girls.”
“Like anorexic girls?”
“A little anorexia is hot.”
She laughs. “You realize, that’s wrong on so many levels?”
“I know. But I think it’s a turn on when a woman stretches her arms over her head and you can see her ribs. After my break-up, I hooked up with this girl Amanda. I remember picking her up off the couch and carrying her to the bedroom. She was so light in my arms. Like nothing. I found it a big turn on.”
“That makes sense actually. Men look for their opposite.”
“I also like braids. When a girl braids her hair in tight ropes, intricate patterns – it’s beautiful.”
“I like braiding my hair.”
“Yeah. I can see you got one going on there. I love the attention to detail that goes into them. The fifteen minutes it took you to make it. The dexterity involved with using your fingers to braid it. I don’t know if that makes sense. I guess it’s a representation of a feminine ideal.”
“Yeah. I get it.” She watches a tandem bicycle ride past. The riders drink from beer cans. “I like intelligence,” she says. “I tend to date lit nerds.”
“How lit do your lit nerds get?”
“They’re the kind who’d rather stay home on a Friday night reading The Unbearable Lightness of Being than go out drinking.”
“The Unbearable Lightness of Being. That’s Nabakov right?”
“No. Milan Hundera. Nabakov wrote Lolita. Geez, where’s your mind, perv?” She bumped him with her shoulder. “Ha. As my dad used to say, I’m just messing with your hair. I’ve read Lolita many times. The writing is… thoughtful. I imagine Nabakov obsessing over each word.”
“Yeah. I just read it on my Kindle.” He played his fingers along the paper hospital bracelet around his wrist. “Do you find the bohemian thing sexy?”
“Can you tell?”
“I can. I like it too. I often fantasize I’m living with a girl in a flat and we’re poor together. The furniture is old. The place is falling apart. But in the morning we smoke cigarettes together on the balcony with just blankets over our bare shoulders and talk about whatever.”
“And drink coffee?”
“The Italian press is the only reliable appliance.”
“Those flats always have the radiators turned on and you can’t turn them off. It’ll be hot.”
“Yes and first thing we do when we walk in is strip down to our underwear. When people visit they have to do the same. Our dinner parties are R rated.”
“What’s her name?
“Who’s name?”
“The girl.”
He thought for a moment. “Claire.”
“Yuck. Claire’s the name of the school priss. You’ve seen The Breakfast Club right?”
“No. What’s that?”
“You haven’t seen The Breakfast Club? Movie from the Eighties? My dad can quote the whole film. Anyway. You can’t go against The Breakfast Club. There are intrinsic truths in that movie.”
“Okay. Then you pick a name.”
“How about Sarah?” she asks.
“Sarah’s the name of a fat girl who wears sweaters. No offense. You’re a skinny girl wearing a sweater.”
She pushes the sleeve of her sweater up her arm. “None taken. How about Veronica?”
“I like Veronica.”
“Classy yet capable of being crazy sometimes.”
“Do you want to be my Veronica?”
She looks at him. Her pulse races ahead. “Maybe. Yes. And you can be Tomas.”
“Sounds like a German bicycle mechanic.”
“It’s a sexy name. It’s a man who’s controlled by his love of women.”
“Ha. Okay. Sounds like me.” He taps her arm. “Okay. Let’s go buy a hat.”
“I can’t just go off with you. I don’t know you. That’s not how it’s done.”
He just stares at her.
She smiles. “What sort of hat?”
“A fedora. I’ll teach you hat tricks.”
“And then?”
“We can get lost in our imaginations. We can laugh and smoke and drink coffee and make love on a balcony maybe.”
“Oh my god. I can’t believe you said that.”
“You don’t want that?”
“It’s just… This is very nonstandard.”
He stands up. “Yes I know. I don’t do this every day either. I guess this is an adventure for us both.”
She climbs to her feet, looks at the scar on his chin. “This is a story.”
“The first chapter.”
“I can’t help when a story begins thinking about the last chapter though.”
“Yes, but the chapter you savor, the one you read slowly, is coming up.”
“I like that.”
“Are you sure? I can leave you here if you want. This may not be the story for you after all.”
“Shut up. I know a hat store we can go to. I like a guy in a hat and…”
“And what?”
“That’s it. Just a hat.”
“Oh.”
Just ask.
****
Join me for an event. Upcoming is the Dallas Conversation Camp on Oct. 20-21st and a New York Conversation Camp on November 3-4th. Also, I’ll be teaching events in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Ann Arbor and Stockholm.  See our complete schedule for a list of all events (including links to a page with details for each event).
Follow me on Twitter.
All the best,
Wayne

Chapter 11: Perceptions
By Wayne Elise
Version en español de este articulo.
Three Summers ago I was sitting at a coffee shop when I saw a girl walking on the other side of the street who I found immediately attractive. But I hesitated approaching her.
“Go talk to her,” said a voice inside me.
I’d like to claim I don’t have conversations with myself. But that’d be a lie. “I probably should,” I thought back.
“So do it.”
‘The thing is, I’d have to pack up all my things. I’d have to rush across the street. It’d look awkward.”
“It’d be like a movie.”
“A horror movie?”
“A romantic comedy. You could be direct. You could be charming. Look at her. There’s something compelling about her. She’s probably creative. You know how you dig creative girls.”
“But I should finish my work here. I’m writing an article about picking up girls.”
“Seriously? That’s the lamest thing I’ve ever heard.”
“It’s too late anyway. There she goes around the corner. I’ll talk to her if I see her again.”
“Promise?”
“Promise.”
“Okay. But I’m still pissed.”
“Sorry.”
“Buy us a cupcake.”
“Fine.”
“A big one. Chocolate. I’m depressed.”
Two weeks later I’m working with a client on the campus of the nearby university.
I pointed out some Asian girls sunning themselves on the grass. “Let’s go talk to those girls. You should go after Asian girls.”
“Why Asian girls?” he asked.
“Let’s just say that you’re very un-Asian and opposites attract.”
“It’s because I’m short isn’t it?”
“What? No. You’re not short.”
“I’m five five.”
“Really? I’d never have guessed. You have a tall personality. Come on. Let’s go make some Asian girls happy. They’re going to love you.”
“Wait. I have to use the restroom.”
“Diarrhea?”
“What? No.”
“Oh okay. The graduate library there has a nice restroom. Walk in. Go down the stairs. I’ll wait here.”
No sooner he left, I spot the girl from two weeks ago walking in my direction. My first thought was, oh shit, I am wholly unprepared.
“You promised,” said that voice inside me.
“You again. Okay. I know. I’ll keep my promise.”
“What’re you going to say to her?”
“No idea. I’ll think of something.”
“You should recite poetry. That’s what Byron would do.”
“Are you serious? That’s a stupid idea. Trust me. She’s not going to appreciate poetry.”
“Sorry. I’m only your collective unconscious. I don’t get out much.”
“It’s okay.”
“Try to look busy. Pretend you’re talking on your phone.”
“My phone’s in the car.”
“Look like you’re out for a run.”
“I’m not wearing running clothes.”
“Pretend you’re stretching against a tree.”
“Shit. Okay.”
I put my hands against a tree and stretched my leg muscles. I pulled my arms behind my back. I pretended to crack my neck. The girl seemed to notice none of this as she began to walk past.
“Say something to her,” said the voice inside me. “Quick.”
I stepped in front of her. “Hi there.”
She stopped walking and gave me a look that said, do I know you?
I stepped closer to her. “Good to see you. I saw you before… The thing is, you have a nice way and I thought… Um, do you mind if I walk with you?”
The voice inside me was shaking his head. “That was the worst series of pick up lines ever. You call yourself a professional? This is so embarrassing.”
She looked around as if there was a hidden camera somewhere. “Uh, okay. I’m just walking back to work.”
“Great,” I said. “It must be nice to walk to work.”
“Yes. It is.”
“My name is Wayne.”
“Nice to meet you Wayne. I’m xxxxxxxxx.”
“So I think it would be fun to get a drink sometime.”
“Well, that might be difficult. I have a boyfriend who may not like me getting a drink with a strange man.”
“Yeah. He might not. Well, perhaps we can get a drink just as friends.”
“As friends, maybe.”
“We could sit outside at a cafe and drink a glass of wine and talk about relationships.”
We reached the edge of the campus and the corner where traffic began. It was clear this was as far as we would be walking together that day.
I looked at her. She looked at me and seemed to make a decision. She pulled out a pen and wrote her number on a card.
“I can’t believe I’m doing this.” She handed me the card. “Just as friends.”
“Of course. Friendship is good. I’m all about friendship. I’ve never met a friend I didn’t like. Okay, what I just said there makes no sense. In any case, I’ll text you tomorrow.”
After she walked away the voice in my head returned, “That was the most awkward, painful thing I’ve ever seen,” he said.
“Yes,” I said. “I know.”
“But I’m proud of you.”
“Thanks. How about we get the client, round up some Asian girls and go for cupcakes?”
“You read my mind.”
That Summer the girl and I became friends. Her French boyfriend, who she had just began dating a month earlier, was absent while visiting France for the Summer. That left me alone with her to work my magic. We would meet up, drink a glass of wine and I’d try to convince her to sleep with me. But she was an honest woman to the end. She wouldn’t cheat on her boyfriend. She described him as very good looking and very jealous.
Eventually she found out what I did for a living. We were sitting outside a cafe on Main street when she brought it up. She set her cabernet sauvignon on the table and screwed her face into a serious expression. “I should have known you were a pick up artist by the confident way you approached me.”
That gave me a pause for thought. “Really? Is that how you saw it?”
“Of course. How else?”
The Summer ended and her boyfriend returned from France making it impossible that she and I would be able to spend time together. I got into a relationship with a girl I met at the gym, then a few months later I moved away to New York where I met and fell in love with Erika.
But since that Summer I try to stress to my clients and anyone who’ll listen that how you perceive yourself is not the same as how you’re perceived. And you get credit for taking action. Boldness has it’s own language.
Good luck,
Wayne

Chapter 12: The soft versus the hard reasons
By Wayne Elise
People tend to offer up excuses to explain away the actions they take in the pursuit of their desires. These excuses are usually factual, logical and completely lame. I call them hard reasons. See if you can spot them in the conversation below.
“Why do you come here?”
“I like the food.”
“Oh, okay.”
“Are you on Facebook? We should add each other.”
“Uh, for what reason?”
“So I can get those details about Saugatuck from you when I get ready to go.”
“Oh okay. You have a pen?”
“Here you go. And write your phone number next to it.”
“Why?”
“Um, no reason? Just in case, you know.”
“What? In case of fire?”
“Yes. In case of fire. I have a big water bucket at home. I’ll come running.”
“Do you like me?”
“Like you? Whatever gave you that idea?”
“It’s okay if you do.”
“Really?”
“Yes.”
“Okay, I like you.”
“Well, if you like me, why didn’t you just say so, stupid fucktard, instead of making up a bunch of dumb reasons?”
“I don’t know. I guess I didn’t think you’d like me back.”
“Well, I don’t like you back. I like my boyfriend. But you’re a handsome cowboy. I’d have been happy to introduce you to my attractive and slutty sister, the one with daddy issues, if you’d not been such a fucktard. Fucktard.”
“Ouch. Will you stop saying that word?”
“Why fucktard? Don’t like it fucktard?”
“Forget it. Forget the whole thing. I’m leaving.”
“Why are you leaving?”
“I have an appointment across town. I have a date.”
“You are such a liar. Don’t forget to pay your bill fucktard.”
“Sure. Okay. But before I go, can I get your sister’s Facebook?
“You can not be serious.”
“I need it for research purposes.”
“Did you not listen to anything I just said?”
“I heard the part about you calling me a fucktard. That wasn’t very nice.”
“Okay. I’m gonna take pity on you. Here’s my cousin’s Facebook. She’s got a couple kids and a missing tooth but I hear it told she fucks like a demon.”
“Oh, okay.”
“You still here?”
“Can I get my hat?”
“No. I’m holding it ransom. You can come back and get it when you learn to stop being such a fucktard.”
“And then I get to meet your sister?”
“No. She moved to Miami last year.”
“I thought you said…”
“Never mind what I said. Jesus Christ, you are such a stupid moron, fucktard. My sister doesn’t live here and I don’t have a boyfriend”
“I’m confused.”
“You’ll figure it out.”
*****
We shouldn’t hide behind platonic reasons to pursue our desires. Instead, we should find the courage to share our personal reasons. These ‘soft’ reasons make us more vulnerable but they give us a higher possibility for creating connections of more significance.

“Why do you come to this restaurant?”
“To tell the truth I hate the food. I come because I like talking with you.”
“Really?”
“No. I just said that to mess with you. Of course really.”
“Oh.”
“Well stop looking so embarrassed and refill my coffee. I like the coffee.”
“I’m not embarrassed.”
“Good. Because I hate embarrassment. I usually embarrass myself three or four times a day.”
“Ha. I doubt that.”
“Just wait. I’m due for my daily embarrassment anytime now. Sometimes it’s saying hello to the wrong person. Sometimes it’s putting my hat on backwards. A couple days ago, I backed my truck into the Korean massage parlor.”
“Oh my god. That was you?”
“See. My embarrassments are infamous.”
“The girls thought it was a raid. A couple of them came over here and hid in our kitchen.”
“I tried to apologize in Korean but it didn’t get me very far.”
“Half the city council was in there getting happy endings.”
“Perhaps I was doing my civic duty then.”
“Perhaps.”
“So this is normally where most guys would ask for your Facebook or number and make a long drawn out affair of it. But that’s really not my style. I just speak my mind, which I’ll do if you don’t… mind. That was redundant wasn’t it? I wish I had that sentence over again.”
“It’s okay. Speak your mind. I’m tired of people weaving around what they want like it was an apple bobbing contest.”
“I’d like us to go out sometime and get to know each other better. Someplace out of town mind you, in case I fuck it up. The church club ladies here are ready to pounce on us. I think it would be fun to share a beer at the OK Corral and dance. And then we’ll take a walk outside in the stars. And if we feel a spark there might be some making out. I’ve been told I’m a passable kisser and you look as if you might even be better than me.”
“When do you want to do this?”
“I don’t have a date in mind. But I’d like sooner rather than later.”
“How about now?”
“Now?”
“Why not? I can close early.”
“How about Charlie down there?”
“Charlie. Get out! Go home. Your wife is missing you.”
“My wife ran off twenty years ago.”
“Well, she’s back and waiting at home.”
“Oh well in that case I better get going.”
“Wow. Nice. I like a woman who lies to old broken men.”
“And I like a man who likes a woman who lies to old broken men.”
“And I like a woman who likes a man who likes a woman who, um okay I’ve lost track. Something about men and running.”
“Ha. Come on. Let’s run out of here and go find some fun.”
*****
When you’re about to reach for a hard reason, stop in your tracks. Rethink and remember these stories. Take a risk and share a soft reason. Don’t miss out on the fun.
Go forth my Charismos, go forth.

Chapter 13: Coming Soon – Emma and The Demon Pick Up Artists
By Wayne Elise
I’m sure you’ve experienced the fun of walking around a new city with no guide or guidebook. Perhaps you’re like me, and your walks turn into all-day excursions. I can’t resist my curiosity enticing me to explore a bit further. This gets me into trouble.
I wave for Erika to hurry. “Come on. Come on. This place is so ancient and interesting.”
“And creepy,” she says.
I point up ahead. “What do you think is around that corner?”
“Could be something fun. Or it could be the lair of an ice giant. This area’s known for them.”
“That would be stupendous. Let’s check it out.”
She rolls her eyes but follows me.
Hours later we’re stumbling along.
“Did you bring water?” she asks.
“No.”
“How about sunblock?”
“Um, no.”
“Food?”
“Nada.”
“A map?”
“Negative.”
“GPS, cell phone, flashlight, a pillow, book to read, midget with a coffee maker?”
“Oh coffee sounds nice. But no, I didn’t bring any of that. I brought you. You speak Spanish and are an expert in Pilates.”
“I don’t think there are many Pilates studios out here. If we meet something horrible I doubt it’s going to care about the quality of my spider kicks. Wait. Do you hear that?”
“What? That howling? Those are just dogs.”
“I think we should have stopped when we saw those poles with the severed heads on top.”
“That’s someone’s left-over Halloween decoration. Not a big deal.”
“There were flies crawling on them.”
“Let’s hike to that next ridge and have a look around.”
“Then we’ll turn back?”
“Of course. No problem. You may not have noticed but I’ve been dropping kernels of popcorn periodically from this bag so we can find our way back.”
“What? We could have eaten that popcorn.”
“No way. It’s buttered. You know I’m on a diet.”
Sometimes writing feels like an exploration that gets out of hand. Emma and The Demon Pick Up Artists is coming soon – hopefully in the next month. It began as a blog post on sexuality and my time living with Emma who was an artist and erotic dancer. Simple. But it has kept growing. I find myself wanting to add more wisdom from the characters I’ve met. And I want to see what’s around the next narrative bend.
Emma taught me lots about women, sex and people. She drove me crazy. She could be the most charismatic person and the darkest. She was a tease of the professional variety. I think everyone should have someone like her in their lives for a time.

Emma and The Demon Pick Up Artists has grown large enough I’m considering turning it into an ebook that can be read on Kindle or iBooks if people seem interested. And we will have a portion of it that can be downloaded for free.  Please let me know in the comment section if you would like that. Thanks.
I turn in circles. “Wow, there’s a lot of fog suddenly.”
Erika rubs her fingers together. “Yeah. It’s really thick.”
“Well thank you dear. That’s the nicest thing you ever said to me”
She shakes her head. “You have a way of making everything sexual.”
“I know. It’s a gift. Some men are athletic. Some are handsome. Me? I’m fast with the dick and pussy jokes.”
She laughs despite herself.
“Your laugh sounds hoarse,” I say. “We should find some gargle. Salt water is good for that.”
“Mmmm hmmm.”
I tried to wave the fog out of my face. “Unbelievable. I can’t see more than a foot. I think you ought to hold my hand. There you go. Wow. What kind of skin cream have you been using? No offense, but your hand feels hairier than a camel’s butt. Wait a second. I don’t remember your arm being so muscled. Have you been lifting weights? Oh wow, your breath smells like…”
“Like what?”
“Like um… like dead things. You’re not Erika, are you?”
“No.”
“Who are you?”
“I’m a werewolf.”
“Are you going to eat me?”
“Pretty much, yeah.”
“Can I ask, what you did with Erika?”
“We sent her back to werewolf camp. Many of the werewolves are desiring to learn Pilates.”
“Oh good. Look! Over there. It’s Michael J. Fox!”
“What? I love Michael J. Fox.”
I ran for it. I didn’t get very far though before the pack caught me. And that’s the way I died.  
By the way, for all who’ve read this far, a reminder that I’ll be in New York this month and London in September for the Conversation Camp. You can sign up for those here and learn my techniques for effective conversation. Sign up this month and get a free invitation to the Mini-Storytelling workshop and fun party. Just send Gerard an email to hook that up after you order: gerard@charismaarts.com
You can follow me on Twitter here.
And my Facebook is here. Don’t friend the fake Wayne Elise.

Chapter 14: Pacing your conversation
By Wayne Elise
Imagine a coil of rope lies at your feet. Think of this rope as your personality, your history – the DNA of your life. Everything about you is imprinted on this rope.
Reach down and take hold of the end of this rope. This end is coded with the initial stuff people learn about you when you first meet. If your name is Chuck, you could tape a sign to this end that reads: To know Chuck, begin here.
At the beginning of your rope are usually ‘safe’ things such as smiles, comments, the initiations of feedback loops. But as you move down this rope, further away from the end, you find increasingly personal ideas and details.
Imagine a stranger next to you. They reach out and take the end of your rope from you. They begin reeling it into their arms. So long as you allow it, the rope passes from the floor around your feet, through your hands and collects in the arms of this other person.
This is the beginning of someone getting to know you. The details they learn about you in the first few minutes may be give-aways such as your taste in high-fidelity stereo speakers and the fact that your mouth goes crooked when you smile. But soon they could be exposed to a slice of your dead-kitten sense of humor. Then later it could be your feeling toward relationships. Eventually it could be your sexual preferences. And on and on.
Through this process of information transfer, you stop feeling like a stranger to the other person. You begin to feel like a friend or potential lover.
I think that’s a helpful metaphor for thinking of the process of someone getting to know you.
So let’s encourage people to pull out our life-ropes.
“Whoa. Slow down there cowboy.”
“What?”
“You’re missing important information Wayne. Life is never that easy.”
“Sure it is. You just…”
“No, you don’t just.”
“But…”
“Shush.”
“Wait a second. Who are you?”
“I’m the Ghost of Christmas Past.”
“What? What are you doing here? It’s mid-July.”
“This is my summer job. I get paid to fact-check. I also work at Starbucks but that’s not here or there.”
“Are you sure you’re qualified for this fact-checking thing?”
“Absolutely. I took a night course.”
“Oh. Okay. Go ahead then. Check away.”
“Thank you. I think in your rush to espouse your life-rope metaphor thingy you’ve forgotten something.”
“What’s that?”
“Tension.”
“Oh yes, tension. That’s right. Thank you. Good day.”
“I can explain further if you’d like.”
“No thank you. Good day.”
“What? You want me to go away? I don’t think you understand. I’m the Ghost of Christmas past. This is a super-natural event.”
“Yes. All that’s fine. But good day. See you in December.”
“Okay. But when I return, I’m coming for your soul.”
“It’s already mortgaged.”
“Ha. I bought that paper up for pennies on the dollar from the Chinese. Here it is. I own your soul.”
“Oh shit.”
“Yep. See you later Juggler. Muahahahahaha…”
Ahem. Sorry about that readers. Yes, there is a caveat. People won’t appreciate learning about your life-details if you just give them up. That would make you sort of a life-detail slut. Nothing wrong with that of course – so long as you dig that sort of thing.
“Hey,” he says. “Look at me! I’m fabulous. I worked with Ted Danson once.”
“I’m sorry?” She says.
“I ride a fixie. Want to see my fixie porn?”
“I have no idea what you’re talking about. Look. I didn’t ask to know anything about you. Perhaps you can hold some thoughts back.”
“I could. But I’m not going to. I’m an all out there kinda guy. I’m going to this fab party later. If you’re lucky I might invite you.”
“No thanks.”
“Aww. You’re playing hard to get. That’s so cute.”
“Whatever.”
“I hear an accent. Where are you from?”
“Nowhere.”
“Ha. Nowhere. That’s funny. Can I buy you a drink?”
“Yes. I’ll take a piña colada but don’t even think about dropping a roofie in there. I’m not going to hook up with you.”
“Whoever said anything about hooking up? You’re more of the kinda girl I see as a friend.”
“Good.”
“Good. So what’s your name?”
“Look, it’s simple. I find you physically attractive but I want to be a participant in my seduction. I’m your best ally here if you’d be more patient. But you’re pushing and pushing and not allowing me to want anything from you. You’re not building desire. See my eyes? No sparkle for you. See my hair? Yeah, it’s kinda messy. I don’t care. You don’t make me the good sort of nervous. You make me want to press the brake, not the gas. You’re not doing this right.”
“Says you. No girl has ever said anything like that to me before. I have always broken up. Never been broken up on. I’m in demand. No one has ever called me anything other than amazing.”
“They didn’t want to hurt your feelings and probably didn’t want to increase an already embarrassing situation.”
“Okay. It looks as if we’re just going to have to disagree about that. Let me show you my high-five routine. You’ll love this.”
“Sheesh. Were you listening to me?”
“Yes. Okay, no, not really.”
“That’s fine. I got a game we can play.” She leans in close. “Close your eyes.”
“Sure okay. They’re closed. This is exciting. What’s going to happen? I can’t wait. Uh… you’ve walked out the door haven’t you? Shit.”
People appreciate hearing the amazing things you have to say more if they desire them first. Don’t push. Instead, counterintuitively, you should resist.
Returning to our metaphor. You want to keep your conversational partner in a state of wanting more – pulling on your rope, sort of speak. While, at the same time, YOU want to be in a state of resistance – keeping the length of rope between the two of you taunt. This tension gives you control over the transfer of your life-details.
Pacing is the rate at which you chose to dole out your life-details and the rate that your interaction moves towards a more personal outcome.
People may not consciously be aware of pacing but they respond to it.
Pacing that’s too fast deflates the tension out of an interaction. Imagine throwing all your rope into someone’s arms. There’s no more for them to want or seek.
But pacing that’s too slow makes people feel bored and as if the interaction isn’t going anywhere.
Finding the proper pacing for the situation is a fun challenge. Sometimes we get this right and sometimes we get it wrong. But it’s always an adventure.
At an 80′s night.
“I noticed you’re wearing a lot of black.”
“Yeah. I love the whole thing. I borrowed this from my sister.”
“And wore spangles and topped it with a headband. Well, I think it looks… good. You rock the 80′s. I thought my outfit was the 80′s but it turns out I’m 1978. Perhaps it’s the wooden tennis racket. It’s a John McEnroe autographed edition.”
She looks blank.
“That was a famous tennis player,” he adds. “He – got – mad – at – people. Probably before your time. I was just trying to guess your age.”
“How old do you think?”
“I’m afraid I can’t answer that question.”
“Why can’t you answer that question?”
“Because if I do then all the tension will leave the conversation. As it stands, you want to know my guess and if I give that up I’ll lose your interest.”
“I promise you won’t lose my interest.”
“Fine. But first, let’s sit down and make ourselves a bit more comfortable, if that’s alright. Then I’ll tell you all about yourself. I’ve been told I have an intuitive nature.”
They sit down on the couch nearby.
“Where are your friends? Perhaps they should join us.”
“Don’t worry about them. I’m a big girl. I can take care of myself.”
“I bet you can. Okay, I think you’re twenty eight.”
She hits him in the shoulder.
“Okay. Twenty six?”
“You’re really bad at this.”
“I know. My credentials might have been over-stated.”
“How about you? How old are you?”
“Older than you. Let’s just put it this way. I’m your real father. I remember your mom. She was hot back in the 80′s.”
“She still’s hot.”
“I’m sure she is. People of any age can be sexy. But personally I end up dating girls who are uh…”
“What?”
“Younger, mostly.”
“Why do you do that?”
“Well, there’s a long answer to that question and a short answer.”
“What’s the short answer?”
“They’re hotter.”
“Okay, what’s the long answer.”
“I can’t really tell you. I’d have to show you.”
“Is that some sort of ploy?”
“Maybe it is. Nice use of the word ‘ploy’ by the way. That’s an archaic one. I bet you’re educated.”
“Not formally.”
“Well, now I’m fascinated.”
“I grew up in Belarus. My mother was an economist. But she made some enemies in the government. We spent my teens traveling from country to country. I was educated in libraries around Europe and by experiencing things. I didn’t read about the Yugoslav Wars. We went there.”
“I bet you met a lot of interesting people.”
“Oh yes. Heaps. You have no idea.”
“I’m sure I don’t.”
“How about you? What do you do?”
“Thanks for asking. I like that you’re curious. But it’s not that interesting to most people and takes several minutes to make anyone understand.”
“I got time.”
“And a Powerpoint presentation… I’m kidding of course. Okay, if you really want to know.”
“I do.”
“I’m an orgy planner. Ha. Just kidding. You should have seen your face. I’m not saying I haven’t thrown together an occasional orgy but it’s not my main gig. Which reminds me of why I like younger women.”
“Do tell.”
“Well, first do you mind if I ask you a personal question?”
“Um, sure.”
“What sort of guy or girl do you find attractive?”
“I like a person who’s fun. Who can laugh at themselves and not take everything too seriously. I’ve had enough of serious people to last a lifetime. I like guys with tattoos.”
“You know, almost every girl I’ve dated in the last few years has tattoos. But I’m not that into them.”
“What are you into?”
“Well, I look for specific things.”
“Yes?”
“I don’t share this with everyone but since you asked. I like a girl who’s tall but not taller than me. I like a girl who has read Hemingway but thinks it’s garbage. She loves Death Cab for Cutie but realizes that music is sentimental crack. She’s blonde with green eyes. She’s not Chinese but she’s excited about the idea of having a threesome with me and a Chinese girl. She likes dive bars and can cook a mean quiche.”
“That’s very specific.”
“Yes.”
“Why are you talking to me? I’m not blonde with green eyes.”
“Growing up in Eastern Europe I think you’d understand that in life compromises have to be made.”
“You’re a bastard.”
“I know. I was thinking it would be fun to get out of here together.”
“And do what?”
“Cab back to my place and spend the night making love to each other. I know exactly where I want to start with you.”
“And where is that?”
“On the kitchen table. Duh.”
“Hmmm… Let me think about it.”
“Sure. Take all the time you want.”
“Can I give you my number instead?”
“I don’t take numbers.”
“Give me yours then.”
“I’m not that big on the whole numbers thing. I always think that if it’s meant to be we’ll run into each other.”
“God.”
“We’ll start slow. You’ll be in control. You can use the accelerator and I’ll use the brake. You pull me into the bedroom and I’ll resist.”
“You’re a weird one.”
“I’ll take that as a compliment.”
“Are you inviting your Chinese friend?”
“I don’t have anyone specific in mind but we can find a girl later together. That can be an adventure.”
“I like adventures. The unknown. I’m a bit addicted.”
He smiles.
Stay in touch. Follow me on Twitter: http://twitter.com/Wayne_Elise

Chapter 15: Why Jokey Smurf is the most successful smurf and what you can learn from him
By Wayne Elise
If you think about it, Jokey Smurf is a terrorist. He places bombs in boxes, wraps them in gold-leaf paper and ties them with a red bow. Sounds like an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) to me. Other Smurfs find these irresistible.
Brainy Smurf smiles at the site of a gift. “For me? Aww, you really shouldn’t have Jokey.”
Jokey reaches to take the box back.
Brainy tightens his grip on it. “Don’t you dare. I love surprises. I was just being a polite smurf.”
He unwraps the gift and it explodes in his face. Boom!
Jokey doubles over with laughter. “Hahahahahaha.”
Brainy staggers around, wiping the soot out of his eyes. “Very funny Jokey Smurf.”
For the life of me I can’t understand why Jokey’s not on Obama’s drone-kill list.
Boom Boom Boom.
You’d think the Smurfs would wise up to his hijinks. But they fall for the same gag over and over.
Boom Boom Boom.
Meanwhile, on the other side of Smurf Village, inside Vanity Smurf’s house, a distant explosion rattles the windows.
Handy Smurf looks up from his tea. “That was a big one.”
Vanity Smurf lowers his hand-mirror. “Yeah. I can’t believe anysmurf would be so gullible.” He opens the front door. “Oh hey, there’s a present on my doorstep.”
“Wait! Don’t open it!”
“But it’s so pretty. Probably a gift from an admirer. I’ll just pull this ribbon off…”
“Nooooo…”
Boom!
So why is Jokey Smurf so successful with his reign of terror?
The answer is, he understands Smurf psychology. He knows that a Smurf has to desire something before you give it to them. And if you build enough desire you can get anybody to do anything.
Compare that to how Brawny Smurf acts. He sticks flowers in Smurfett’s face. He performs headstands for her amusement. He offers things with no sense of building desire and he gets nowhere with her.
At night he’s comforted by Brainy who rubs smurf oil into his shoulders.
“You don’t want her anyway,” Brainy says. “Based on Smurfett’s flirtation behavior, I calculate there’s a seventy five percent chance she has smurf-bumps.”
“I don’t care. She’s the only girl I could love.”
“She’s the only female smurf we know in existence so technically you are correct. But logic dictates that if there’s one there could be others. And mostly I think you should look nearby for companionship and…”
“She’s perfect for me.” Brawny says, cutting Brainy off.
“I know you think so but perhaps you should try someone new.”
“I need her.”
“Someone smarter.”
“Her hair is like gold. Her body is like a lilac flower…”
“Someone willing.”
“…with two plump, delicious smurf berries.”
“Someone who appreciates your strength.”
Brawny stands up, unbalancing Brainy who tips over and falls face first onto the floor.
“I need to go lift some boulders,” says Brawny. “If my biceps are just a smurf-inch bigger I’m sure she’ll notice me.”
Meanwhile Smurfett’s hooking up with Jokey behind the Bakery while Baker Smurf is off smoking a joint in the woods with Pappa Smurf.
“Oh Jokey,” she says. “You’re so bad for me. But I just can’t get enough of you. You have a way of making me feel like I just drank tingle berry juice. I feel warm and excited around you.”
Jokey sticks out his tongue. “Ha ha.”
“Is that all you can say?”
“Ha ha.”
She shakes her head. “Ugh! Men!”
“Ha ha.”
She picks her dress off a bush. “I’m leaving.”
He holds his hands out. “Wait. Here’s something for you.”
“What? A present for me. You’ve never done that before. That’s so nice. I was wrong to get mad at you.”
She unties the ribbon and opens the lid.
Boom!
I think humans are not so different from Smurfs. They pursue what they desire. The key to succeeding with them is making them desire something you have.

Chapter 16: Be naked
By Wayne Elise
Drive through Los Angeles and you may spot me. I’m the guy running the streets of Los Feliz with my bare feet. People point fingers. Dogs turn mid-pee to stare. I get mocked in Spanish by the guys standing along the street in front of Home Depot. “Mira, a ese wey no le alcanzo para zapatos?”
Erika rolled her eyes when I announced my new fitness routine. “You’re going to get hepatitis.”
I shrugged my shoulders. “If I do and I die, I want you to remember I love you. I also want to be cremated, and my ashes made into a cake and fed to celebrities.”
“No,” she said. “I’m going to feed you to homeless people.”
I ran out the door and down the street in my bare feet. I began smiling as I ran. I hummed the Willie Nelson song On The Road Again. I enjoyed my run so much that when I returned home I threw my running shoes in the trash. But then I had second thoughts. I pulled them out and tossed them to the neighbor’s Pitbull for good measure. “Rip ‘em up boy,” I said. He looked down at the shoes and rolled his eyes.
Running shoes are well intended. They offer padding and stabilization to ostensibly protect a runner’s feet. But running shoes remove a runner from their natural interaction with the running surface. They permit and encourage runners to run in a manner that damages their bodies. By trying to protect feet, they hurt people.
Sit on a park bench and watch the feet of passing runners. Pay attention to the moment their feet land on the running surface. The leg is extended and nearly straight as the heel lands first.
“I’m sorry. Did you say the heel?”
“Yeah, the heel. The freaking heel!”
Landing on your heel is like dropping a wooden pole endwise onto concrete. With each stride the ligaments and joints of the knees, hips and back are crunched under impact shock from the runner’s body weight. Virtually every runner is injured and has to stop or take a break from running due to the culmination of impact shock.
Trust nature. Back in the Paleolithic Age, eons before shoes were invented, human legs reached their evolutionary zenith. Back then runners landed on their forefoot then soaked up downward momentum using the strength of their calf muscles and elasticity of their Achilles Tendon before springing forward again into the next stride. Anyone landing on their heel was washed out of the gene pool.
“Hey what happened to Grok?”
“Broke his feet with that stupid stride he used. We had to leave him behind. Pretty sure he got eaten by a sabertooth.”
“He was funny.”
“Yeah he was. Remember that time he pushed a rock down a hill with a stick?”
“Ha. Good times. Did he have any last words?”
“He called out, ‘This wouldn’t have happened if I had shoes.’”
“What are shoes?”
“No idea.”
I’m hooked on barefoot running. My knees and back no longer ache while I run. Running barefoot has helped me become more engaged with running. I don’t feel compelled to carry my iPod to escape boredom. I scan for pebbles, glass and organic debris. I look ahead for the smoothest concrete. I pay attention to the feel of the running surface under my feet. And I run with a smile on my face.
I made Erika walk outside the other day so I could show off my barefoot stride on the sidewalk. Her reaction surprised me. She clasped her hands together. “Aww, that’s so cute.”
I stopped running and looked around thinking there must be a mom pushing a stroller behind me. “What? What’s so cute.”
“You,” she said. “The way you run looks as if you’re sneaking up on someone. It’s cute.”
Here I was thinking my running looked hardcore. I imagined myself carrying a spear and hunting Wooly Mammoths on the African plains 200 thousand years ago. “No. I’m a caveman.”
But she was right. Turns out barefoot running looks cute – like we’re sneaking up on someone. Indeed the goal of barefoot running for me is neither speed nor distance, but rather to run as lightly as possible. It’s a Zen thing. I try to feel at peace with being passed by a ‘banger’ wearing running shoes while I focus on my soft as pillow landing.
I didn’t make any of this up of course. Barefoot running has become a global movement since the release of the book Born to Run by Christopher McDougall. If anything I’m late to the party. A few years ago, my friend Jay, whom many of you know, bought those Vibram FiveFinger running shoes. At the time, I laughed at him as we ran around Central Park together.
“Those shoes are way too geeky. I rename them Jay’s no-hot-girls-going-to-talk-to-him shoes.”
Jay took my teasing well. “These shoes are all about getting close to barefoot,” he said. “I’m strengthening my feet this way and running more how nature intended.”
“Yeah, whatever Jay. Just don’t be too close to me when we run by those French girls up there. Nature intended us to look good to French girls.”
“How do you know they’re French?”
“I saw them being rude to people earlier.”
Ha. Look who’s laughing now Jay? Um, you are of course.
Anyhow, if you’re interested, there are a lot of resources out there on the topic. Just Google barefoot running.
It’s a metaphor.
The question you’re wondering is what this has to do with the things you come to Charisma Arts to learn. Okay, here’s the connection. I’d like you to think of running barefoot as a metaphor for interacting with people.
What ARE you talking about Wayne?
I’ll explain. But first relax, sit down, find your slippers and PJs. This may take awhile.
Scientists point to findings that demonstrate happiness is linked to experiencing new things.
“Welcome to the lab,” says a guy wearing a lab coat and chewing gum while he talks. “Here’s what we did in our experiment. We presented our test subject chimpanzee with a physically fit female to whom he had no previous exposure. We then observed significant increases in electrochemical activity in the brain region associated with happiness.”
“Yes but so what? She’s an attractive mate. Of course he’s happy.”
“You’re not a scientist are you?”
“Um no.”
“I didn’t think so. It’s NOT just an attractive female that creates this response. It’s a NEW attractive female. The test subject had limited happiness response when exposed to the many other attractive females with whom he had previously been exposed. Arousal, maybe. But happiness, no. It’s newness that creates happiness.”
“But why did you have to dress them in lingerie?”
“Um. That’s just for us.”
“Gotcha. And the lipstick?”
“Ditto.”
I think this guy’s onto something with his ‘new equating to happiness’ thing. But we don’t need science to tell us that. We can look inside ourselves and feel it. Just as our bodies want exercise, so too our brains want to interact with new ideas, new people and new social configurations. We want new challenges. We want to deepen our relationships and expand our social horizon.
All that is within our reach. Evolution or God or whatever you want to call it made us social animals.
But to reach our social potential we have to create honest and vulnerable conversation with people. Unfortunately we don’t do that anymore. Not since we were eight years old.
Erika and I were standing at the DMV office yesterday waiting to transfer title on a car when a boy waiting with his mother struck up a conversation. He held out his mother’s iPhone. “Guess how many games I have?” he asked.
I studied him for a moment. “I don’t know. Let’s see. I guess a hundred.”
“Ptthhh.” He rolled his eyes and began counting. “I’ve got thirty two,” he announced.
I smiled. “That’s way more than I have. You should give me a few.”
He laughed and showed me one of his games. “I like this one,” he said.
“How old are you kid?” I asked.
“Eight.”
“That’s a good age. And what do you do for a living?”
He just stared at me.
“You know… a job, occupation, career?”
“I like playing games.” he said.
“Nice. Your preoccupation is your occupation. You live life on your own terms.”
But I’d lost him to staring at Erika’s cleavage.
You remember the open and vulnerable way you talked as a child I’m sure. It’s natural that we lose some of that as we age. But the most charismatic adults I’ve met are able to tap into child-like openness and vulnerability. They play and express their emotions and move to the music and share their imagination. They’re eager to take the initiative and smile and tell you what they would like to see happen.
Too bad most people have become conversationally fearful. Before we leave home we tie our conversation shoes on over our personalities to protect ourselves from conversational dings.
“Where’s that coffee from?”
“A roaster in New York.”
“New York is for rich people.”
“Yeah it is. What do you do?”
“I work in entertainment. I work with the director who made The Last Picture Show.”
“Isn’t he dead?”
“No. He’s just on sabbatical.”
Blah Blah Blah. We’ve encased our conversations in neoprene-cushioned, stability-controlled, rubber-soled conversation shoes. We never let our real selves out to play and interact. We ask questions we don’t care about. We espouse opinions disguised as facts. We buy into a need to demonstrate value. We tuck our vulnerabilities away behind a sheen of artificiality.
All that stuff protects us from awkward moments but it isolates our senses and blocks our intuition about people. We’re left to guess or ignore how our conversational partner is feeling. It’s no surprise then that we often make the wrong moves. We insult when we should compliment. We annoy when we should intrigue. We hang back when we should move forward. We move forward when we should hang back. We stop trusting our instincts and instead buy into multi-step interaction methods.
Get naked.
The first step toward reclaiming our innate interaction skills is to remove the layers of things we stick in our conversations to protect us from the inevitable, natural conversational dings. Once we can stand in front of each other naked we can begin to accurately read our conversational partners and make the appropriate moves. Here are a few suggestions to get naked.
Stop asking questions to perpetuate conversation. Asking questions out of personal curiosity is wonderful. But we so often misuse questions. We use them to perpetuate conversation. I catch myself making this mistake sometimes. I hear it like an orchestra conductor hears a wrong note blown from the tuba section.
“What do you do?” I ask.
This sounds like an F-flat when the score calls for a B minor.
“Well…” she says.
I wave her off. “Oh no. Don’t answer that question. It’s a ritualized question. We can talk about that later. Let’s talk about something we both feel more excited to talk about at this point so early in the conversation.”
“No it’s okay. I’m an art history major. But I also have a job at the Moma.”
“Oh dang. I really wish you wouldn’t have told me that.”
“Why?”
“Because I was just trying to make a point with the readers. Look, I didn’t what to tell you this but you’re just a conversational straw girl.”
“A what?”
“A figment of my imagination. You don’t really exist.”
“This is horrible.”
“I know. I imagined you with all sorts of wonderful assets.”
“Fuck.”
“Yeah. Now I’m imagining you out of existence.”
“Noooooo….”
We often resort to asking questions when we’re afraid of silence. Which is understandable. In the fragile beginnings of a conversation, silence can indicate an end to the conversation. But asking questions to push away silence only creates more silence. After our conversational partner answers our question we’re in a worse position than before we asked the question. After we get an answer its even harder to improv a good statement. So we have to ask another question. It’s a Ponzi scheme.
“Where did you get that phone?”
“At the T-Mobile store.”
“Do you like it?”
“Yes.”
“You do? You like it?”
“Yes. You have a hearing problem or something cowboy?”
The gambit runs out and we’re revealed as a person who doesn’t seem to have anything unique or personal to share.
“No. I guess I just have nothing to say.”
“Yep. Dang Ponzi scheme. I get them all the time. Why can’t I meet a man with something to say? Anyway, you better get outta here little doggie. Giddyup!”
“Well you don’t have to be so mean about it.”
“Sure I do. It’s in the script. Page three, scene five, paragraph six.”
“Wait. I just read ahead. In chapter eight we have sex. Alright!”
“No. That’s a misprint.”
“Drat.”
The solution to silence is to make peace with the fact that some silence is natural and inevitable in conversation. Indeed silence is also when many conversations take a breath before running deeper toward a more personal connection.
It’s okay to temporarily run out of words. Stay calm. Resist the temptation to ask a question. Keep eye-contact with your conversational partner. Breath deeply. Stretch. Smile. Be at peace with the silence. DO NOT CHECK OUT and start inspecting the floor for fairy tale creatures. There’s no such thing. STAY WITH YOUR CONVERSATIONAL PARTNER. Keep eyes and face turned toward your conversational partner. DO NOT CHECK OUT! DO NOT CHECK OUT!!
Okay, good.
You may find it helpful to let your conversational partner know you want the conversation to continue but can’t think of anything to say. That’ll often cue the other person to share more to fill the gap.
“I’m into origami.”
Silence.
“Or-i-gam-i. Okay, cool. I’ve never known anyone who’s folded paper like that. I’m not sure how to relate to it. But I’d love to hear more.”
“No worries. I’ll show you some origami now. I can fold a bank note into the likeness of Pippa Middleton’s bum.”
“Oh, you’re English. I didn’t’ realize that. Tally-ho then.”
“Ahem. Yes. Tally-ho. It would also be brilliant if we sat for tea and crumpets. They’re just smashing I say.”
If we freak out over silence our conversational partner will cut the connection with us. We’ll have to regain their focus if we want to pick the conversation up again. It’ll take a big topic or reason to do that.
“Hey, I just saw Elvis and Kurt Cobain holding hands and walking past the window!”
“No you didn’t.”
“Yeah you’re right. I was just trying to get your attention.”
“Well you shouldn’t have let it go in the first place.”
“Curses, I know.”
Regaining conversation after a disconnect is hard.
It’s much easier to act calmly toward silence and leave the connection open. That’ll allow us to comment on even small things to rebuild the conversational momentum.
“I like tapping my fingers together like this.”
“I like spinning pens.”
“Well, we got that sort of thing in common.”
“We do indeed. Want to rent Elvis and Kurt Cobain costumes and walk around together?”
“Hell yes. I thought you’d never ask.”
Break the fourth wall. This term is borrowed from theatre where the fourth wall is the invisible, imaginary wall that separates the actors and action on stage from the audience. It’s as if there are two separate realities. An actor is said to have broken the fourth wall when he or she interacts directly with the audience, merging for a moment, the two realities.
Years ago I was sitting in the audience watching a musical when Tony award winning actor Norbert Leo Butz flubbed a line on stage. He turned to the audience and joked about rehearsals and airplanes and how hard he finds it to memorize lines. The audience laughed, and he went back into character and continued the show. Afterwords, all anybody could talk about was his off the cuff banter with the audience. People were impressed that he would trust them with a confession not to be a perfect acting machine. This built a connection with the audience that went beyond entertainment.
We have something similar going on in our conversations. We’re actors in our conversations but we’re also narrators and observers. It’s cool to step out from our character occasionally and allow our conversational observers to speak directly to each other. This breaks the fourth wall.
“I like this.”
“Like what?”
“This. Two people just meeting like this and spontaneously getting to know each other. I think this sort of thing is rare for most people. Too bad for them. It feels like an adventure.”
“Yeah it does. Let’s go for ice cream. I’ll race you.”
“Wait! Wait! Didn’t you notice the cast on my foot? I’ve got a broken foot. She’s gone. Too bad. I liked her. And now I’m just here with you guys reading this on the Charisma Arts blog. Hey, so when is Wayne going to finish that next ebook anyway? Didn’t he promise that months ago? Geez…”
By breaking the fourth wall we acknowledge the duality of human consciousness and add a layer of connection with our partners that most people miss out on.
Ditch the need for exciting stories. In the last few years people have embraced the idea of telling exciting, and often untrue, stories as a means of demonstrating value. “Gee whiz Captain Stardust where do we go now?” Bleah!
In my opinion, this is a destructive idea. The morals of misrepresenting truth aside, we’ll never be open to connect as long as we’re trying to prove our worthiness for connection. That’s like Skynet sending the Terminator back in time to kill the mother of John Connor so that it’s future victory is assured. The whole idea is rife with unworkable paradox. Okay, it’s actually nothing like that. But I have been dying to squeeze a Terminator reference in here all night.
Here’s a better metaphor. I was sharing dinner with performer friends recently when the conversation came around to what makes a good show.
One of the people there was Owen Morse of the comedy juggling team Passing Zone. He’s a friend of my good friend Josh. Owen made the point that the connection with the audience is more important than telling funny jokes or pulling off amazing feats of coordination. “If you’ve got a connection with the audience you have everything,” I remember him saying.
This from a guy who, with his partner Jon Wee, has been working as an entertainer for years. The two of them have performed at The White House and on the Tonight Show and with Bob Hope, Tony Bennett, Bob Newhart and George Carlin. We should realize two things about Owen. Number one, he knows how to entertain people. And number two, he’s really old.
My point is, if such a good and seasoned performer is saying this then we should be convinced as to the importance of connection over interesting material.
In my own experience with street performing and giving talks over the past ten years I can tell you that the connection is not the most important thing. It’s everything. I had this conversation after a lecture I gave recently.
“Wayne, I liked your talk. You’re very entertaining. I’d like to be as good a speaker as you. But it seems as if you bring a lot of wit to your talks. I don’t know if I could do that.”
“Thanks,” I said. “I appreciate your kind words. The secret is to drink lots of coffee.”
“Seriously.”
“The truth is that you could easily do what I do. It’s not wit. That’s an illusion. It’s connection. I’m open to reading my audience. I let them guide me. It doesn’t come from up here in my head. It comes from out there on people’s faces.”
“Really? I don’t see how that’s possible.”
“You just gotta get over yourself. You’re thinking that speaking to an audience is a competition – as if you have to win them over.”
“Don’t I?”
“No dammit because the audience wants to be your partner. They WILL be your partner – so long as you show them you’re real, vulnerable, naked. That allows them to place their trust in you.”
“Sounds scary.”
“It is at first. But then you do it, and you realize it’s easier. I’m over myself. Okay. That’s not true. I try to be over myself. You should never trust anyone who claims to be Zen. Only the true messiah would deny being the messiah. Not that I’m denying being the messiah because I want you to think I’m the messiah – because I’m clearly not the messiah. I don’t even know what the hell I’m talking about. I’m agnostic. Reminds me of a Monty Python skit though.”
“The one with the shoe – in Life of Brian.”
“Yeah, that’s it. But in any case, I’ve given up the need to impress and entertain. Its too hard that way. I want to relax and connect instead of worrying about what to say next. The stories and humor are created together with an audience in partnership.” I brought my hands clasping together – trying to be dramatic.
He shook his head. “I still don’t get it.”
“Perhaps I’m not articulating it well. It may be something that you just have to try. At your next talk go up with no material. Trust in the connection. All that you need is there in front of you. You’ll see it if you’re vulnerable, open and naked.”
“Like really naked? Like strip off my clothes?”
“No. Don’t do that. I’m speaking metaphorically. Jesus.”
“Of course.”
“It’s a lot like religion. You gotta have faith.”
“I think I could relate to it more if I thought of it like the Force from Star Wars.”
“Yeah, you can do that.” I swung my empty coffee cup around pretending it was the handle of a light saber. “You gotta believe in your light saber in order for it to work.”
“I’m pretty sure light sabers work regardless of belief.”
“Yeah, you’re probably right. They should have some kinda passcode or at least a child lock on those things though don’t you think?”
“Okay, I get it now. You really aren’t witty are you?”
“Ummm… thanks for noticing. I’m so out of here. Chewie, call me a cab.”
Sharing opinions is NOT the equivalent of connecting with our humanity.
 Sharing our opinions is not intrinsically destructive. It’s just that so many of us try to use opinions as a proxy for connecting with people.
Two single parents meet in a park.
“I have two wonderful daughters. How about you?”
“I have a boy. He’s seven. He’s a challenge.”
“They are at that age. You got to keep a firm hand.”
“Yeah, sure do.”
“This is such a beautiful day.”
“Yeah it is.”
“Okay. See you next week. Bye.”
“Ciao.”
“Wow, she was hot. I have no idea how to make that happen.”
“He was hot. I have no idea how to get him interested.”
Connecting to an opinion is like connecting to a political action committee. It feels safe joining a mass of like-minded people but ultimately we’re left feeling disconnected and unknown as individuals.
The way to connect with people is to be vulnerable enough to share our feelings and unique viewpoint. Every person feels differently about every topic. We connect with others, not by espousing an opinion we expect our conversational partner to agree with, but rather by trusting the other person enough to express our feelings and unique perspective. This allows them to trust us enough to do the same. To connect, first be an individual.
“I have two daughters. They’re kicking my ass. Not a day goes by that they don’t teach me something new. Have you heard about this new thing they call it F-a-c-e-b-o-o-k? Ha.”
“I have a boy. He’s seven. He looks like his dad – which to tell you the truth, drives me crazy.”
“I bet. My girls don’t look like either my ex or me. I’m pretty sure they were switched on us at the hospital. But I love them. Well, I do love the younger one more.”
“Oh my god. Really?”
“No, not really. Okay, maybe a little.”
“Ha. I know what you mean. Sometimes I love Dougy more than other times.”
“Hey. I don’t know what you’re doing the rest of the day but I’d like to grab a coffee with you. We can do more of this. I’ll tell you the rest of my single dad jokes. Well, actually they’re not jokes. They’re my life.”
“Sure. Okay. Sounds fun.”
“Great. That makes me happy. There’s this place a couple blocks from here I like.”
Throw some books in the trash and delete from your Kindle. NLP guidebooks, seduction method books, the Fifty Rules of Powerful Bastards and Bitches, and whatnot materials appeal to people trying to protect their skin. These materials are mental masturbation. They give the people studying them the illusion of being productive toward their social goals but in reality it’s like studying Voodoo. The only special power they give us is the ability to promote wonky psychological theories.
The first thing I do when working with a new client is observe them in natural conversation. I can spot the ones who’re into these kinds of materials. They’re slow. They’re in their heads formulating responses based on a theory they read. Or trying to force a memorized story into a weird conversational hole.
“Get rid of that crap,” I tell my them. “It’s just going to make you seem mentally challenged. In real life, conversation moves too quickly and is too fluid to be pinned down by psychological methods. You’re going to have your conversational-head handed to you by rivals who just don’t care about manipulating people. While you’re thinking about the next step in your method, they’re free to be charming.”
Tip: Instead of reading more self-help we should be reading more character-driven fiction to help us become better at talking from a personal perspective. Here’s an old post on reading material I recommend.
Communicate visually. We don’t want to just hang up on people when they extend an offer of communication.  I used to do that as a kid before people could look up a number with caller ID. My friends and I used to prank telephone people just to hang up on them. You know how this goes.
Ring ring.
“Hello.”
“Hi.”
“Who is this?”
Click.
Ring ring.
“Hello.”
“Hi again.”
“What the fuck?”
Click.
Ring ring. Ring ring. Ring ring.
“Yes! Hello!”
“Is Tabitha there?”
“What? No. There’s no Tabitha here.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yes. I’m sure.”
Click.
Ring ring. Ring ring. Ring ring. Ring ring.
“Hello, God dammit. What do you want? Stop calling here!”
“Hey calm down.”
“Who is this?”
“This is Tabitha. Do I have any messages?”
“Ha. Very funny. You fucking kids can die for all I care.”
“Um no. You will die because you’re old and ugly.”
Click
We were bad kids. Our karma is screwed. But yours might still be saved. Think of visual communication like a telephone line. As soon as someone picks up, stay on the line and communicate. When you exchange eye contact, begin to say something, even if it’s only mouthing words. It’s a visual thing. Move your hands, smile, point at their shoes and give a thumbs up. Do whatever you have to do to keep the communication open and continuous until you can walk closer and talk.
Yes, you will feel more vulnerable communicating visually. But as you know, if you’ve read this far, that’s a good thing. The added non-verbal interaction time will help the other person feel more comfortable with you and they will see you as a person they can be vulnerable with.
Show your unique self through your wardrobe. I’d like to say that looks don’t matter. But they do. If we walk into our favorite coffee shop wearing a black hoodie and sunglasses we’ll get a different reaction than if we walk in with a collared shirt and a smile. I’ve done this. If we wear a scarf and a t-shirt (one of my favorite looks) we get a different reaction than if we wear dress pants and a sweater.
I don’t claim to be a fashion expert. When people ask me for fashion advice I just tell them to match the color of their belt to their shoes. I have my own fashion taste which runs neo-hipster. Some people say I dress too young for my age. But when I take the time to dress right I receive unsolicited compliments from women. I like those.
So what’s the right way to dress? Well, the details depend on you. I just know that fashion should help reveal your personal taste and unique perspective. Try not to fit into a known fashion cliché. Don’t be an identifiable hipster or jock or prissy or nerd or post-apocalyptic Euro-trash or whatever. You are not trying to be a member of a group. Find your own path which may be a mix of different types. You might even enjoy changing your fashion every day. Experiment and have fun with it.
The willingness to work your style will add to people’s perception of you as a vulnerable person. You may be surprised at just how much a change in the way people interact with you can be made with fashion alone.
Stop thinking of communication as a means to go somewhere else. We’ve all read emails and SMS messages, and heard conversations that are only means to an end.
“Hi Teddy. It’s Kate. Just calling to wish you a happy birthday. Happy birthday. What are you doing on Friday? There’s going to be a great party in my building. You should come. Okay, talk to you later. Bye.”
These messages seem devoid of life. They might be as well be constructed by zombies on a lunch break: “Hi June. Call me sometime and we can get together and go hit that new gallery, and then afterwards, if there’s a spark, and we feel the connection, I’ll eat your brain.”
These messages may call for action but they miss the point. Social communication exists not to make something happen but rather to carry the vulnerability and unique perspective of the people having the conversation. It’s its own reward. Instead of thinking about getting things out of an interaction, think about how to lower the static and tune into the right frequency. Do that and the connections that allude so many of us will come naturally to you.
Allow yourself to be misunderstood. Never lose your sense of humor. Confess things that aren’t in your best interests. Poke fun at yourself. Challenge your need for a specific outcome to your conversations. Be naked and hold the reigns of life loosely.
“Hi Teddy. It’s Kate. I’m happy you’re getting older. Congratulations you dirty black crow you. Sorry – been watching Game of Thrones. Anyways, can’t wait to see you. Judy from accounting called and she wanted the two of us to join her for a hot tub party. I don’t know about that. She’s not my type really. I prefer leggy blondes but it’s your birthday so it’s your call. Later.”
If it helps, imagine a planet-killing meteor on a collision course. You and everyone on Earth are going to die in an hour. I doubt you’ll waste that time trying to get something. There’s no point. Instead you’ll spend that hour enjoying the people you’re with. Do that and you’ll know what it’s like to interact without your conversation shoes.
All the best,
Wayne Elise
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 17: Personal Renewal and Empire State of Mind
By Wayne Elise
Version en español de este articulo.
Erika and I attended a Jay-Z concert last week. Empire State of Mind brings tears to my eyes. I love that song.
I remember saying years ago I would never live in New York City. “It’s too loud, too crowded, too in love with itself. I hate Jay-Z. Why can’t he wear his hat the right way?”
Funny, how time can erode our opinions. These days, I’m New York’s bitch.
How did that happened?…
Well, one day I had my life plotted ahead. It belonged to me like a credit card with my name on it. I walked around feeling smug about it. Then the next day I was standing in line at the coffee shop, I reached into my back pocket and it was gone! I dropped to my knees.
That was three years ago. I experienced a major plot turn. Bang! My wife was gone. House gone. Money gone. The Formica dining-room set I was so proud of was being carried out the door by a short Bruce Willis.
“Need help?” I asked.
“Yippee ki-yah mother fucker,” was all he said.
My future was wiped out in a nuclear blast. The movie screen burst into over-exposure as the shockwave engulfed the camera. A few minutes later the scene came back. I walked around confused. What are these ashes floating in the air, coating the trees and the cars? Oh right, those are the incinerated details of my life.
I only had myself to blame.
“You should listen to that Beyonce song,” Marie said. “It’s called ‘If I Were A Boy’.”
I found it on iTunes. The message was clear. I was an asshole – prick, uncaring, self-serving, self-involved, not fit for husbandly duty.
“But…” I said.
She cut me off. “No.”
“The thing is…”
“Nyet.”
“Wait. I’m Wayne Elise, I understand things most people don’t. I can fix this. Just listen.”
She listened as I talked. Then she said, “Okay. But no. I’m leaving.”
“Really?”
“Yep.”
I tapped the microphone. “Is this thing on? Oh, I guess it is.” *sigh*
Imagine rolling around on the floor with the wind taken out of you.
But don’t feel sorry for me. I’m just setting the scene. This isn’t that kind of story.
An unusual thing happens to us when we lose everything. Sometimes, at the bottom of the well, we talk to the bugs down there, “So this is as bad as it gets, eh Shelob?” We take a deep breath. “I can handle this.” Then we begin to laugh. And laugh and laugh.
I laughed for a month. I weened myself into single life with the help of a skinny girl named Amanda. And then I unrolled a world map on the floor. I could go anywhere. But the destination was obvious. New York. A beacon hung over the city. It’s the creative people capital of the world. And the single people capital of the world. And the hot girl capital of the world. Men, do you want to meet a famous Brazilian fashion model? Don’t bother flying to Rio. She lives in Manhattan.
Selling my house in Ann Arbor, I would take a loss. I wouldn’t see my friends or family. But I didn’t have to think twice – I signed the papers, loaded my futon into a Uhaul and drove East.
New York, concrete jungle where dreams are made of
 There’s nothin’ you can’t do
 Now you’re in New York
 These streets will make you feel brand new
 Big lights will inspire you
 Let’s hear it for New York, New York, New York…
Sometimes places are just places, and things are just things. But sometimes they can become more. Way more. They can become symbols of commitment.
Look up the street and into the distance. See that person walking up there, ahead of you? That’s future-you. That person is important – not someone to just be thrown a thumbs-up, but someone who deserves to be ran after. “Hey Future-Me. Wait. I want you to have this gift. I think you can use it.”
“Thanks. Just set it on the ground and I’ll pick it up. I’m pretty sure the Universe will explode if we touch each other.”
“Oh yeah, right. We should probably be careful about that. Here you go. See you later. By the way, you look great. Have you been working out?”
So what do you give yourself? Think big. Something like a new city or new career or new skill, maybe a tattoo, maybe honest words with your boss, maybe you should write a love note to that hottie you’ve been pinning over.
People’s brains have been conditioned by video games. In real life we don’t have second, third and fourth lives. This is it. Miss your opportunity to ‘go for it’ and you won’t get another. Take a jog through a graveyard if you need a reminder. Nothing like hanging with the dead to appreciate the opportunities given the living.
Your present conditions might not be conducive to making a change. I understand. Make it anyway. Be willing to take losses. Every chapter in every good book starts with the fucked-up ending of the one before. Be willing to burn a bridge. Throw stuff out. You don’t need to carry all that around. Be nimble on your feet – able to cut left, dive right, move ahead.
I became a new person in Manhattan. My work suffered as my focus shifted to my personal life. I no longer felt inspired to teach guys to pick up girls. Instead I spent my time picking up girls… asian girls, black girls, fashion girls, actor girls, NYU girls, threesomes with French girls. I was in love with the abundance of the city.
‘City of sin, it’s a pity on the wind
Good girls gone bad, the city’s filled with them.’
Manhattan is the only place where you’ll hear a guy say he’s taking a break from women. Neil Strauss stayed in my apartment for a few days. One night we got into a heated discussion at the Meatball Shop.
“Are you still performing routines to pick up chicks?” I asked.
He set his fork down, “Maybe these things I do aren’t necessary for you. But from where I sit, I don’t see them being something I can leave behind.”
How could he not see? Women in NYC want to experience adventure. That’s why they move there. Twenty four step methods for managing women into bed can only be counter-productive. New York is too fast-paced, too direct for that.
I did some dumb things in New York. I chose to fall for this girl who was in an open-relationship with her husband. They would have me over for dinner to their apartment in Brooklyn. She’d cook dinner, we’d play Rock Band on the Xbox, then he’d go to bed while she and I would hook up on the couch. I stabbed those two in the back, there’s no easy way to say it. I see her now on You Tube being the hot girl in music videos.
I met an Asian girl while she was on a date with another guy. This girl aced MIT and worked for Google in the City. We slept together and then I pimped her out to my friends. She broke down on me during a trip to London. She sobbed lying next to me in the hotel room in the dark.
“I thought this was what you wanted,” I said. “New York women love adventures.”
“You don’t know anything about women,” she said. “I really want to be in a relationship. I want a guy who’s young, skinny, good-looking and white. He also needs to be successful. I’m afraid I’ll never find that.” She broke out in more sobbing.
“I’m not any of those things,” I said. “Why did you hook up with me?”
“I don’t know.”
We’re all children making our way through life. Your renewal might be messy. You might get wet, splash other people, get water up your nose. That’s okay. Collateral damage is a consequence of living an ambitious life.
One night it rained more than I had ever seen in New York. The storm sewers overflowed. The street corners became lakes. Taxis slowed to a crawl. I found my umbrella and boots. I love walking in the rain. There’s something isolating and thoughtful about it. Some of my best ideas come while walking in the rain.
As I walked, I thought about the foundation of what makes a man attractive to women. It’s akin to being a good tango dancer. Women avoid dancing with the guy who’s shaking his hips, gesticulating and spinning. They want to dance with the guy who effortlessly makes his partners look good. He supports women and guides them, but never forces them. A woman can pour herself into the dance with him and it feels easy. She can be her sexy-best. Few men understand that. It’s not about you. It’s about her.
Looking up, I found I had walked to Ludlow street. I stopped in front of an Italian restaurant called Trē. My stomach growled. A bowl of pasta sounded good. The restaurant looked appealing – intimate. But I hesitated. I couldn’t see any customers through the window but only a couple of women standing behind the bar.
“Why don’t you go in?” said a rat perched atop a trash can lid floating by in the water. “Try something new. That’s what you came to the city for right?”
“Yeah, but if I go in there, being the only customer, I’ll have to talk to those women for sure. If they’re boring, if I’m boring, I’ll be trapped.”
“Geez, what sort of conversational expert do you call yourself? I’m sure you can handle it.” He snatched a passing, floating stick out of the water and used it to punt his boat away. He sang a verse from ‘Carmen’ as he disappeared down the street.
I decided to forget the restaurant and go home. I walked away. But then I walked back. This is stupid. What was I afraid of? I crossed the street, opened the door and stepped in. I tried to collapse my umbrella but got it hung up on the door. I fought with it a bit, got it closed, and turned to the two women who were there looking at me – one smiling, the other looking aloof.
“You can put your umbrella in the can over there.” the smiling one said.
I dropped the umbrella and found a seat at the bar.
“What would you like to drink?”
“I’d actually like some food if that’s possible please.”
“Sure. You’re brave coming out in this weather. But glad you did.”
I smiled. “Gracious.”
“That’s funny, ” she said. “I’m learning Spanish. I just got Rosetta Stone.”
“I want to get that again,” I said. “I started to learn Spanish with it but then Bruce Willis took my computer.”
“Huh?”
“Never mind.”
The other woman said nothing to me. But I thought she was beautiful and exotic – white skin, green eyes, black hair. She spoke to the smiling woman with an accent I couldn’t place. My guess was she was Czechoslovakian. The two of them laughed at some inside joke. ‘Oh,’ I realized, ‘she could smile after all.’
“How about you?” I said to her. “How’s your Spanish?”
She just looked at me as if I was stupid. ‘Perfect of course. I’m Mexican.”
And then she offered me a piece of her food that she had bought next door.
I took it. “I’m Wayne by the way.”
“Erika,” she said.
It took me three more visits over the next month before I got her to go out with me.
On the second visit I asked about her relationship situation.
“Hopeless,” she said. “I date crazy people.” Then she walked away. I wondered at that. Did she mean she did or didn’t like dating crazy people? Was I crazy?
On the third visit I told her she looked beautiful in the dress she was wearing. But somehow, through a comedy of errors, she thought I was hitting on her male co-worker.
On the fourth visit I unleashed the most devastating weapon in my pickup arsenal – Pity Game.
Erika and a friend were talking about a roof-top party they were attending to watch the Independence Day fireworks.
“How about you? What are you going to be doing?” She asked – mostly, I believe, out of politeness.
“Nothing,” I said. “I have no plans. I’m literally going to be staring at the walls in my apartment. And when I’m done with that I’m going to stare at the ceiling.”
“You should stare at the window at least,” she said. “But uh… do you want to go to this party?”
“Sure, I’d love to. That’s so nice. I thought you’d never ask. But only if we can call it a date.”
“Well, we’ll see about that.”
We had our first kiss on a bench in Washington Square Park on a walk after the fireworks. Whenever I take clients there to meet women I smile thinking about it.
A couple months into dating, Erika said she thought of me when she heard ‘Underneath Your Clothes’ by Shakira. I listened to the song as I ran along the Hudson River pedestrian path. The message was clear: She was proud of me and I made her happy.
Flash forward to the concert last week in the Staples Center here in Los Angeles. We bought the tickets last minute – sat in the rafters. But that was okay, I just wanted to hear Empire State of Mind.
New York, concrete jungle where dreams are made of
 There’s nothin’ you can’t do
 Now you’re in New York
 These streets will make you feel brand new
 Big lights will inspire you
 Let’s hear it for New York, New York, New York…
I don’t live in New York anymore. Erika and I are big-pimping it out in LA but I’m happy I gave myself the gift of New York. It made me feel brand new. Now, what will make you feel that way? Please put your thoughts in the comments below.
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 18: Make Personal Conversation – the Coffee Cup Metaphor Video
It’s always easier to make topic driven-conversation. At least at first.
“Mexico city is cheap this time of year, don’t you think?”
“Oh yes. It’s cheap but yet the service is good there.”
“Yeah. It rocks there.”
“Um, yeah.”
The problem is that platonic, topic-driven conversation doesn’t have legs. It tends to bulk up around topics until we run out of facts or judgments and doesn’t allow our conversation to move laterally. Most of my clients who come to me with the complaint of running out of things to say in their conversations are often just not making their conversations personal.
Once a personal conversation is introduced (hint: do this early) your conversation can flow much better – like coffee. You simply follow the characters through life.
“I’m looking forward to tasting the tortillas. I’m going to walk down the Plaza de la Constitución.”
“You do?”
“Yeah, that’s the kinda person I am. I want to live like that movie Matador.”
“The one with Pierce Brosnan?”
“Yeah.”
“I like that movie.”
“Me too. Well we have that in common. Want to buy me an ice cream,”
“Not really but I’ll give you a noogie.”
“Grrrr.. ”
// 
Personal, character-driven conversation allows us to pass through topics as we follow the characters of ourselves and our conversational partner. It gives the conversation legs while connecting us. I hope the above video will give you a metaphor to help you keep this idea in mind.
To master character-driven, personal conversation sign up for My Conversation Camp.
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 19: Good Luck
 By Wayne Elise
Be forewarned. This is a story about people talking. There’s little action. No plot. Not much character development. Also, the details are how I remember them, not how they truly happened.
I was teaching a client in the field recently who had just returned to the United States from Afghanistan.
“Not much chance to work on my conversation skills out there,” he told me. “I spent my time on a hill with my squad buddies searching for bad guys through binoculars.”
“Yeah,” I said. “And now you’re here with me talking to girls. I bet it feels surreal.”
He shrugged. “Pretty much.”
Later he told me, “You wrote something once about trying to see strangers as potential friends. In the Marine Corp we’re taught to see them as potential enemies. You never know who may be trying to blow you up. I’m friendly to everyone I meet, but I have a plan to kill them.”
“That’s how Erika is with me,” I say.
He just stares ahead.
You’re thinking about a way to kill me right now,” I say. “Aren’t you?”
“No comment.”
He refers to women as females. That’s a soldier thing. “Hey Wayne. Two females inbound at three o’clock.”
“Great. Let’s create an ambush and watch our six. Ten-four good buddy.”
He looks at me as if I’m the most moronic person in the world.
I nod. “And that’s why I’m not in the Army.”
“Marines.”
“Right.”
Despite carrying himself with a soldier’s bearing that could be mistaken for being uptight and a sense of irony that’s more locker-room than sensual, he can hold a conversation. He can talk about art and music. He knows who Keats was.
Coincidentally, we ran into the girlfriend of his favorite DJ/Rapper – a guy calling himself Napalm. I snapped a picture of the girlfriend and my client together.
“Her boyfriend is progressive in melding his beats with his rap.” Says my client after we leave her. “It’s a slow-build fusion sort of thing like the beatnik poets. He sings about getting fucked up at parties but his lyrical combinations are more akin to Jack Kerouac than Jay Z.”
I’m impressed, though I have no idea what he’s talking about. “Uh, yeah. That sounds good.”
We have a heart to heart chat in the car I’ve rented to drive us around. “When you talk you say interesting things,” I tell him. “Your intelligence comes across. It’s just that you’re conversationally passive. I’d like to see you engage more. You’re fully loaded. Kill those fuckers. Conversationally speaking, of course.”
We drive to SilverLake. “This area is full of hipsters.” I tell him. “It’s the opposite of being in the military.”
“Let’s go to The Thirsty Crow,” I say. “It’s Esquire magazine’s best bar in America. I think you’ll love it. We’ll find friendly girls with piercings.”
We walk in and look around. People huddle over their Old Fashions and their Traditional Manhattans. Every seat is taken. A few guys turn around to look at us. They stroke their beards and adjust the chains attaching their wallets to their jeans. I grimace and we walk out.
“It’s usually better than that,” I say. “Must be couple’s night. Let’s head to Good Luck. It’s my favorite bar. Only a couple clicks away.”
“You don’t have to talk military talk Wayne.”
“Aye, aye.”
“That’s the Navy.”
“Right.”
We walk into Good Luck. It’s eight p.m. The bartenders are arranging their liquors.
I smile. “Let’s sit at the bar. This is perfect.”
We chat up the bartenders who seem glad for the distraction.
“It’s helpful to get them on our side.” I tell my client. “We can do this now. We wouldn’t even try later when it’s busy.”
I open a time-travel app on my phone. I set it to forward 8x and watch life hurry. The cocktail waitress lights candles on each table in fast-forward. The bartenders shake and pour like people possessed. People fill Good Luck like a rising tide.
I return time to normal speed and turn to my right where I spot an attractive girl sitting next to me. She overheard my banter with the bartender and now I’m the devil she knows. She allows me to catch her eye.
“Hi,” I say. “I like your…” I let my eyes wander over her.
“My what?” she says.
“…your smile.”
“Thanks.”
I gesture at her male friend. “I’m glad you arrived. Now I’m not the tallest one here.”
“Are you sure?” says the girl. “You might be taller.”
“No. I’m just closer to you. It’s an optical illusion. He’s a giant.”  I say to him, “No offense of course.”
“None taken.” he says.
This leads to him and me standing back to back.
“You’re right,” the girl says to me. “He’s taller.”
“And probably smarter.” I look at him. “You look smart.”
“And so do you,” he says.
“That’s nice of you to say. I barely graduated high school. But thanks. I mostly feel smart when I wear my glasses.”
“You wear glasses?” the girl says.
“Well, reading glasses. When you get my age you stop being able to focus close-up.”
I pull my glasses from my pocket and model them for everyone. I push them out to the end of my nose like a librarian. “We just got eye glasses for my wife too. She never realized it until now that she needed them. So she never really knew what I looked like. When she wore her glasses for the first time, she turned to me and did this.” I contort my face with surprise and horror.
They laugh.
I introduce my friend.
“How do you guys know each other?” the girl says.
I hate that question. I hear it a lot when I’m with clients. People don’t understand why a middle-aged, white, married guy would be out with a twenty two year old, single, Asian guy – they have no imaginations.
“Good question,” I say. “He’s uh… here to hang with me because… uh… he’s visiting. He just got back from overseas. He’s a Marine. You should see his biceps. But he’s got no tattoos. I don’t get that. Oh well. C’est la vie. Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?”
She nods. “Ask it. We’re all about the personal questions.”
“How old are you?”
“Twenty four.”
“Ah, that’s a good age.”
“Why? How old are you?”
“Forty three. I’m almost twice your age.”
She raises her eyebrows. “I’m surprised. You seem younger.”
“Aww, thanks for being nice.”
“No. You do.”
“If I do seem younger it’s because I move around a lot. That’s the secret to appearing younger. Never let people get a good look at you. Even now – I’m moving.” I wave my hands in front of my face and rock my head.
I turn to the guy. “I don’t know how you feel about being tall but sometimes it’s a pain.”
“Yeah. Sometimes.”
“Like on airplanes. I’m usually folded up in coach.”
“I know what that’s like.”
“And we get sexually harassed at the grocery store. This little old lady the other day… She must have been eighty. She asked me to pull a cereal box off the top shelf. And then when I reached up for it, she grabbed my butt.”
“Ha. Did she really?”
“Well, it could have been an accident. She might have been steadying herself. But she was smiling at me when she did it.”
I look over to my client and wink. He looks mesmerized by the situation.
I continue, “… and then the next morning when we woke up in bed together… ”
They laugh.
I put my hand out. “I feel as if I’ve been hogging the conversation. I want to hear about your lives.”
“What do you want to know?” the girl asks.
Between slurps through a straw of the last of my Fists of Fury drink I say, “Everything.”
They look at each other and then the guy says, “We’re traveling nurses.”
“That sounds like important jobs. I don’t know what that means though.”
“We’re sent for six months to a city to work in the ICU and then we move to another city for sixth months.”
“Very cool. I think that’d be interesting and in ICU I bet you get to follow the patients progress more so than in emergency.”
“We do. I love it. It’s the best job I ever had. We just came here to LA. Before this we were in New Orleans.”
“Welcome to town.”
“Thanks.”
I peer closer at him. “Has anyone ever told you that you look like someone famous?”
“Not lately,” he says.
“I’m thinking Tony Robbins. Except a better looking version. Your head is normal size. That guys has a big head.”
“I don’t know who that is.”
“You’re better off.”
I Google a picture to show them.
“You’re right,” she says to me. “You do look similar,” she says to him.
I nod. “What can I say. Your talent is saving lives. Mine is finding celebrity look-alikes.”
We talk about their work. I’m fascinated. And then the conversation moves on to travel. “I’m mad about threesomes being illegal in China,” I say. “I don’t know how to change that.”
“They are?”
“Yeah, I’m not happy about it. My wife and I visited China last year. I might start a Facebook protest page or something.”
“How do you know they’re illegal?”
“This famous Chinese actor went to jail for like three months because someone leaked a cell phone video of him with two girls. It’s horrible.”
We talk about threesomes for a bit.
Then I say, “I love my wife but she makes me feel bad about myself. She’s in prefect shape. It makes me feel fat by comparison.”
“How long have you been married?”
“About nine months. We did a Craigslist wedding.”
“You met on Craigslist?”
“Ha. No. We hired everyone for our wedding off Craigslist. The photographer, a stylist, the woman who conducted the ceremony.”
“Do you have a picture of your wife,” the girl asks.
I pull up a photo of Erika from my phone.
“She’s hot.”
“Thanks. She’s out of my league of course. I had to make her feel sorry for me to get her to go out with me. Pity game. It works. So how about you? What’s your relationship situation?”
“I’m single. I was dating a guy in Seattle but I had to leave him behind. He’s there probably cleaning fish as we speak.”
“Ah. I see. Well, it’s good to be single. Complete freedom. How about you?” I say to the guy.
“Actually we’re here with a bunch of other nurses,” he says. “They’re over there.”
I look. At a table are sitting five or six girls.
He points toward a hot one. “That’s my fiancee.”
“Wow. Congratulation. She’s very attractive.”
“I know. Thanks.”
We talk about rock climbing, which the guy calls his passion.
I shake my head. “I regret that I lived in Boulder for a time but never climbed a rock. I’d love to learn how.”
The fiancee walks over and we meet her. I tell more silly jokes about my life and tell her she’s pretty. And then the guy asks to exchange numbers.
“I can take you out to Point Dume,” he says. “There’s some easy, beginner routes there.”
“Sounds great,” I say. “I can’t wait.” And then I turn to the girl and say, “And I uh…”
“I’d love to hang out with you and your wife,” she says.
I feel a shiver down my spine.
“Well,” I say. “I don’t think you’re cool enough.”
Her face went red.
“I’m kidding,” I say. “You’re very cool. You’re like three or four times cooler than me. I’d love to hang out with the three of us. It’d be fun. We could meet up and have some drinks and see where the night leads.”
She smiles. “You guys seem different.”
“I like to think so thanks.”
We all exchange numbers.
Leaving Good Luck I turn to my client. “Sorry I didn’t find a way to include you in the conversation more.”
“That’s okay,” he says. “I learned a lot by watching and listening.”
“I don’t always do this – whatever this is, perfectly. But that was a pretty good interaction I think. The vibe came together. I like when the conversation is coming together like that. It’s fun to ride the wave. Now we have an in with a bunch of nurses. You know what that means?”
“What?’
“Nurse parties. IVs with booze in them. Girls with those short and sexy nurse outfits, people with broken arms hooking up with people with broken legs. Sick shit like that.”
“Yeah. I could see they were into you.”
“We were lucky. They were looking for something or someone fun. They felt up for a conversational adventure.”
“So the lesson’s to lucky.”
“No. The lesson is take the conversation to people and not be so fucking passive. Be like your rapper buddy. His lines are aggressive. He really says a thing when he says it. He blows.”
“You mean ‘flows’.”
“Right.
“I’m not really his buddy by the way. I’m just a fan.”
“Whatever. We met his girlfriend. You know what I call that? Serendipity. You know what serendipity is? It’s the thing that happens when you put enough of yourself out there that you run into happy coincidences. Most people play life too close to the chest to put enough of themselves out there to change their luck.”
“Makes sense.”
“You heard me. I just babble on about relationships and K-Pop. And it works pretty well. Agreed? Good. But you actually say smart things. You’ve had time to sit and think of all the philosophy in the world up there on that ridge holding your rifle and waiting for the Taliban to run past. I bet the stars are amazing in Afghanistan. You’ve lived a unique life with unique thoughts. That’s gold. But no one knows any of that if you just wait for someone to ask. They won’t. How could they know how cool you are? They can’t. But they’d love to be surprised. It’s like going to a movie that you expect to be average and sitting and watching and thinking oh wow this is great. It’s like when I saw Amélie.”
He looked confused.
“Obscure reference for you. It was the 500 Days of Summer of its time.”
More confusion.
“A romantic comedy. Anyway, forget it. The point I’m trying to make is there are a million guys out there who look like you, making safe conversation from typical perspectives. They’re adding no value to the world. While you, though a little rough around the edges, have got things to say. So say them.”
“Okay.”
“So?”
“I’ll try.”
“Dig deep.”
“You’ve given me a lot to think about.”
“Good. Do you have a plan to kill me right now?”
“Yeah. But for a second I kinda forgot.”
“You’re lucky I’m not a Taliban secret-agent mother fucker.”
If you’re interested in excelling at the art of people sign up for my Conversation Camp or our new event Confrontation Camp or do some Phone coaching with us. We’d love to work with you.
And as always, I’d love to read your comments.
All the best,
Wayne Elise
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 20: Why the hell would you want to be romantic?
By Wayne Elise
Imagine a summer day. You lead your lover into the park. You spread a blanket on the grass and have her lie next to you while both you lie on your backs holding hands.
“This is a test,” you say. “Let’s see how aware we are. We’ll close our eyes and count the sounds we hear.”
She closes her eyes. “Okay. I have the first one. I can hear your voice.”
“Right, I’ll count on my hands. That’s one for you.”
“And I hear my own voice.”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 21: How to take photos for your online dating profile
By Wayne Elise
Many of the people for whom I’ve written dating profiles have asked my advice on photos. I thought I’d create a small guide for them and for you.
Feel free to forward this to your friends out there who might have no idea how to create the photos they need to make their dating profile work.
Your photos are the most important element to your success in online dating. No matter how great your text or text that you hire someone like me to write for you, the people who check out your profile are going to look at your photos first before deciding to get to know more about you.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 22: The importance of building and leveraging a social reputation
By Ben Adams
Joan Jett might not give a damn about her bad reputation (old reference, I know). But for us Charismos, our social reputation and our ability to leverage it is our life blood.
I’ve noticed a bias in most communication materials toward perfecting the first impression. This makes sense as a marketing technique to people who’re starting out. However, my experience out there in the business and dating world is that the happiest people with the most social opportunities are those who successfully create positive social reputations and build relationships.
Acquiring new clients, friends and romantic partners is important. It’s also an essential step when you want to change your life. But this process takes more energy and work than using what is already available to you. I feel this is yet another Zen moment from Charisma Arts. Try not to swim against the current. Instead of pounding the pavement for new clients, imagine your existing clients giving you all their business and telling their friends about you. Instead of having to chase women, imagine your existing acquaintances thinking so highly of you that they wanted to introduce you to their attractive friends.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 23: Find out the relationship situation or die
In my opinion Dan is a wonderful instructor for Charisma Arts. Check out the messages his clients sent me after last weekend’s Charm School Bootcamp in New York City.
But it hasn’t always been a smooth path for Dan. Here’s a story about what happened a few years ago when Dan and I were out together and encountered trouble. I hope you enjoy it.
A girl smiled at Dan. Let’s call her Belle.
Dan walked over. “What’s a girl like you doing sitting on a stool in a place like this?”
“Waiting for you to come talk to me,” Belle said.
She batted her eyelashes at him. He flexed his bicep for her. She laughed at that joke he always tells that makes me gag. Soon they were gazing into each others’ eyes.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 24: Read about what makes sexy people sexy.
As a kid I used to lie in bed at night and fantasize about growing facial hair. I thought that if I wore a mustache, people would have to do what I said.
Spend time with children and you’ll learn a simple truth – they’re obsessed with power. It makes sense. They’re the least powerful people in the world. They’re told when to sleep, what to eat, what to wear, what to think. They dream of being bosses or police officers or international super criminals.
After becoming adults we realize few power trips are worth the trouble. Being the boss at work means you have responsibilities, sporting muscles means you spend your days at the gym, even politicians have to appease voters.
But I was fascinated from the moment I understood the concept of being sexy. “You mean to tell me, people want to be around and help you just because you have a hard to explain but omni-present aura? Where do I sign up?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 25: Take the test and find out how Zen you are.
One thing we have learned is that being Zen is attractive.  So we have created a Zen Test for you which we hope is educational and fun.  This is a very popular item for us, and so to present it in it’s most optimal way, it is now located at zentest.charismaarts.com
Please click here to take the test:   Zen Test

Chapter 26: From Small Talk to Big Talk
During the season between Thanksgiving and Christmas I find myself spending most of my social time at holiday gatherings. These include office parties, networking functions as well as themed social events. What I like about this time of year and the holidays is that there is always something natural to talk about. Wayne recently stressed the importance of talking about things your conversational partner can relate to in his article about The Secret To Hooking People Into Your Conversations. At Charisma Arts we also stress taking conversations off the beaten path beyond the reams of small talk in order to access intimacy, creativity and genuineness in our interactions. How can you take a well-traveled road to a new destination? This is what we teach at conversation camps and practice during bootcamps.
There are two primary ways to open the door to an extraordinary conversation about an ordinary subject. The first is to set an example which gives the other person the freedom to relate to the subject in a similar way. The second way to encourage novel interactions is to ask for them in a positive and straightforward way which does not put pressure on your conversational partner. I’ve included a few examples below.
I was at a professional networking event last week which was Christmas themed and I noticed a tree with decorative presents under it. Some young professionals I hadn’t met were standing next to it and I decided to approach them and introduce myself.
“Hi, I’m Ben.”
“Hi, Ben. I’m Cindy.”
“Cindy, I noticed you and your friends here next to the tree with all these gifts and I have to make a confession. I haven’t finished my Christmas shopping yet and I’m starting to feel really anxious about what to get everyone.”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 27: The Cheesecake Test
For those of you scoring at home, The Cheesecake Test may, for you, supersede the old Charisma Arts Vacuum Theory.
The challenge for us in conversation with a stranger we want to connect with is one of getting the other person involved and invested in the conversation with us. However, this doesn’t happen when the other person feels forced to interact with us. Put pressure on people with questions or demands or a feeling that they’re being manipulated and you can create a cycle of diminishing returns.
“So where are you from?”
“Cypress.”
“What are you doing here?”
“Nothing.”
“Uh, I don’t know what to say next. Should I ask another question?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 28: Handling Confrontation Part 1 – Conditional Yes
The following is part 1 in a series about ways to handle confrontation that I hope to add to from time to time.
A client asked me the other day about a situation he found himself in. He went out on a date with a girl. They shared a couple beers. Things seemed to be going well but then when the bill arrived they got into a discussion about who would pay for the drinks.
Subsequently, the girl announced, “You’re going to pay for the drinks or I’m going to leave now.”
My client paid up.
Later the two of them ended up making out.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 29: Why you should tell her you find her hot
Dealing with hot women is like talking to a celebrity. You know they’re famous. They know that you know they’re famous. To pretend you don’t know who they are is just going to make you act silly. Best way to interact with a celebrity is to admit they’re a celebrity, introduce yourself and move on to other topics of conversation.
“Hey, you’re George Peppard from The A Team. I used to play with your action figure. I’m Wayne Elise. Nice to meet you.”
“Nice to meet you.”
“I thought you were dead. Anyways, It’s good to see you. I saw you checking out that girl’s butt. Don’t worry. I’m not calling you out. It’s okay, I was checking her out too.”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 30: How To Get Someone to Like You
I thought this was going to be one of the shortest articles I’ve written. How do you get people to like you? The answer is: People like you for liking them. SIMPLE. End of article.
But then again, anything that simple has got to have some complex ideas holding it up. It’s like the Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles. The hall is considered a masterpiece by architectural critics who look at pictures and sip wine all day. The building is covered in stainless steel sheets. It looks simple and clean but that building was a bitch to build. Same with your conversation. There’s a lot going on under the skin to make a simple statement such as, “I like you,” work.
People take convincing. They pop out of the womb shaking their head and carrying a bullshit meter.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 31: 16 Essential Skills for the Charisma Artist
1. You make more statements than ask questions. You don’t push conversation through questions. You understand the importance of being continually additive to the conversation.
2. Ego traps got nothing on you. You know how to resist and overcome the typical ego-trap questions such as when someone asks you, “What do you do for a living.” after a minute of conversation. You’re not lulled into thinking people really care about you yet and you know what sort of thing to say in response to make the conversation more productive and solid.
3. You enjoy disqualification and can use it to lower the stakes of the conversation and make people laugh.
4. You can call someone out, in a firm, yet nice way, for making unoriginal or unfocused conversational statements. You then inspire them to think harder.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 32: Banter 101
Cutting out the silly stuff such as weirdo cold-approaching and question trains allows you to bring the good stuff such as complimenting, disqualifying, building relationships and creating relaxed and sexy interactions.
Here’s a recent interaction of mine. Perhaps you can spot the conversational techniques we teach here at Charisma Arts. Enjoy!
I look over and see a hot girl sitting, waiting. She refuses to look my way. She seems focused on something. So I smile at the worker drone walking by.
The drone smiles back. “Can I help you with something?” she asks.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 33: Why you should be easy – like the Apple Store
Once upon a time, I walked into the Apple Store to buy a pair of noise-canceling headphones, which I admit, look dorky, but I thought they might help me sleep on airplanes. I spotted the headphones on the shelf, just where I expected them to be. I picked up the box and looked at the price. My eyes watered and I felt woozy. Gripping the shelf for support, I thought, ‘Wow, the Apple Store is expensive. I bet I can buy these cheaper somewhere else.’
And so I drove to Circuit City.
I had no idea where Circuit City kept noise-canceling headphones. I wandered around their store searching. I stopped a worker and asked him. He muttered something about his lunch break and waved towards a corner of the store.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 34: How NOT to be a cold approach weirdo
Please raise your hand. How many guys out there have made a cold approach and had it not go well? Be honest. I’ve made bad cold approaches. Anyone who’s serious about meeting people has.
It’s okay to fail. It’s okay to make social peccadilloes sometimes. But it’s not okay to be weird. I’ve seen too many guys be weird. There was the guy who was palm reading girls’ hands. “Did you see that girl?’ he says to me. “She was under a trance.”
“Uh, sure,” I say, while thinking to myself that the only thing that girl was under was an urgent need to get away from him.
First rule of meeting girls – don’t be delusional. You’re not putting anyone in a trance with your language patterns. Not happ-en-ing.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 35: How to flirt at the farmer’s market
In this episode of the Charisma Arts’ podcast Wayne and Dan head to the Farmer’s Market in Hollywood to sharpen their conversation skills.


 Flirting at the Market [ 8:30 ] Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/FarmersMarket-MP3.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Flirting at the Market', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 36: Wayne and Dan Podcast II, Revenge of the Bar Tended
Grab a drink and join us. Included in this podcast (20 min.):
* The guys charm the bar tender
* Why you should be a slut
* Steve Jobs’ quiet confidence
* Are Russian Mobsters Sexy?
* Lea’s movie review
* Kung Fu
* And much more!
 


 Dan and Wayne - Revenge of the Bar Tended Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Dan_Wayne_revenge_bartender.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Dan and Wayne - Revenge of the Bar Tended', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 37: Podcast with Wayne and Dan in LA
Check out this podcast with Wayne and Dan. Dan is wanted
by the police, we learn that you too can meet Polish girls and a
neighbor stops by.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/WayneAndDanPodcastoct42011.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 38: The Secret to Hooking People Into Your Conversations
We have all had the experience of making stilted conversation that just doesn’t seem to hook our conversational partner.
“I like your belt.”
“Thanks.”
“Um… where did you get it?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 39: Juggler Method wins the award for being the most like the movie Inception
Last night Erika and I had a new friend visit our apartment. She is twenty years old and full of conversation. She was sitting on our white couch next to Erika telling us about her world. I was lying on our white rug, next to our white table, drinking a glass of red wine – that’s how I live dangerously these days.
The girl was talking about how guys try to hit on her in various ways and with various degrees of success.
I interrupted her. “When I met you at the coffee shop, was I hitting on you?”
“No.”
“Are you sure I wasn’t hitting on you?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 40: Demo Camp Report
This last Saturday I ran my first demo camp. This is about that day from my personal viewpoint. The conversations are not verbatim but as best as I remember.
****
I woke up in a San Francisco hotel room after a night out teaching private instruction clients there. I dug my phone out of the covers. Looking at the time I realized I had to be at the airport for my flight back to LA in an hour. I threw the covers off and popped off the bed. I decided that showers are for losers, packed my things into my backpack and ran out of the room.
A couple minutes later I ran back into the room to grab my phone.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 41: In life there are moments when you have to ‘go all in’ and risk everything.
When I’m sitting with a hot girl I feel grateful to be in her presence. I look at her and think to myself, “Man, this girl is out-of-my-league.”
Those thoughts can make me act safe. Blah! There’s a simple,
universal formula we should all memorize and apply to our
conversations. Safe = boring.
Boring =  no hook up. And that equates to a ‘life of quiet desperation’.
I realize all of this. So I take that
safe part of me, hit him on the head with a lead pipe and stuff his limp
body into a closet.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 42: Do You Look at Strangers As Potential Friends or Enemies?
As you walk around today try asking yourself how you perceive strangers.  Do you look upon them and just know they have value? Do you believe  there is something cool about them, even though it may be hidden? Do you  think, ‘He might be rough around the edges but he could be my friend?’
I hope so. This is a helpful mindset to have.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 43: Ten Phrases to Keep Your Conversation Exciting But Truthful
Let’s face it, we want to impress people. I want to impress you right now. And no matter how long I meditate it’s hard to get far from my ego-driven Me-machine. “Please, like me!” See. Impossible.
But it’s okay to want to excite and impress people. This weakness is just part of our human condition. It’s why we have Facebook. It’s why I stick pictures of my girlfriend on my blog: www.wayneelise.com   We just can’t out-Zen it.
The challenge for us is to be exciting while not overstepping our truth-bond with other people. We want to be known as interesting but also TRUTHFUL.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 44: Blind-Driver part 1
Steven wrote on our article request form:
Hey CA team,
It´s me Steven! i´m interested in your view on the blind driver metaphor again. i know the metaphor but is it the same later in the interaction (for example escalating for the  kiss or a romantic date, or in general something that leads to sexual  level)?
does the escalation not go further because she knows something that you don´t know?
 can i overcome it with the questions: what do you have to tell me, that stands between us?
Thx have a nice day,
 Steven
Thanks for the request Steven.
I’m  going to answer this in two parts. First, for those who aren’t familiar  with the blind driver metaphor it goes something like this: Imagine  you’re sitting at home when your friend drives up into your driveway in  his car. You walk out and he says to you, “Come take a ride with me.  We’re going to drive down the busiest street in town. It should be fun.  We’ll stop and buy ice cream too.”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 45: What Books I Recommend
Eric had a request on our Request an Article form.
Title: What Books would you guys recommend?
Greetings CHARISMNA ARTS,
I have ALWAYS wanted to IMPROVE my over all Game ( as if i HAVE ANY THATS EXISTING,..ha ha). What sepcific books , articles should I reaD? ANy courses that I should take that may help me? Such as NLP, Hypnosis, Salsa, etc.
Thanks for the request Eric. Those are good questions and here I am writing an article for you. 
 Continue reading →

Chapter 46: What makes a good conversational statement Part 1
Okay, I admit I have a reputation as a demanding pr*ck. Ha. But at least a couple of my demands I think are understandable.
I demand my clients ask fewer questions and instead, make more statements.
See, I’m not sooo bad after all.
But what exactly makes a good statement?
 Continue reading →

Chapter 47: Conversation Skills – using the word ‘want’ not ‘need’.
Wayne Elise is interviewed in an elevator by Charisma  Arts instructor Harry about the Conversation Camp and Wayne gives us a  conversational tip.

 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 48: Older Versus Younger Women
The great debate:  Wayne Elise versus Dan Tena. We hear the merits of pursuing older versus younger women. Wayne makes fun of Dan and we hear about Dan’s yoga date.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/Dan_Wayne_debate_young_or_old_women.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 49: Showing Your Value
You want to be valued. We all want to be valued. To be valued feels good and we can do stuff with that perception of value. We can exchange it for money, love, sex, power.
In Charisma Arts methodology we talk about the importance of commitment for generating value: People who interact with you judge your value based on how much effort THEY have put into the interaction with you. The real leader of the group is not necessarily the one that everyone listens to. It is the one that everyone talks to. Ultimate power lies with the audience and not the performer.
That’s a hard concept initially for most of our clients to grasp. But an important one. When you’re telling a story your intent matters. Have no interest in proving yourself. Confident people don’t do that. They may say interesting things, they may entertain you, but in the end their intent is to create the proper conditions where you invest in the interaction with them. Their rap could sound close to the guy’s rap who’s trying to prove himself. But observe closely, it all goes down a slightly different slot. Watch the reactions of the people conversing with him. Do they end up talking to him or are they simply his audience? Anyone can laughs and applause. It takes a master to get people to put on their own show.
 Subscribe in a reader

Chapter 50: Hide and Seek
People like to hide from one another.
They may have grown out of hide and seek, but they still unintentionally try and conceal their real selves in their interactions. This is because people are afraid of being intimate with one another; yet it is exactly this intimacy that everyone craves.
Want to make a connection with someone? Then you need to learn how to seek out their true selves in your conversations.
Time: We are not the same person that we were 5 years ago, 5 weeks ago or 5 hours ago. What is interesting in an interaction is what is happening between two people in that moment. To have a highly charged interaction both people need to be invested in that moment and be reacting to one another.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 51: Girl Talk
﻿
‘Who’s the hottest boyfriend?’ 

‘Get some man know how- get clued up on the ten things we wish we’d known earlier about men’
‘Sex to make him fall in love’
‘My boyfriend left me for a man’
‘Never get dumped!’
 Continue reading →

Chapter 52: Imagine That
Want to learn how to communicate with women more successfully and get them on that hot date with you? Want to know to how to send a text or an email that will get the response you want? Then stop planning your date and start visualizing it.
It’s 8pm Monday night. My phone beeps with a text message.
“What r u up to Friday night?”
My heart pounds. What does this guy want to do?
 Continue reading →

Chapter 53: Make Out Music
Get the perfect Make-Out Playlist for you.
Hopefully you got our newsletter and did our quick Make-Out Magic Test to see which of our experts advice is the best accompaniment to your kiss-a-thon. Want to get our newsletter? Send an email to newsletter@charismaarts.com and we’ll make sure that you don’t miss the next one.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 54: Metaphors for success: Top Ten tips for riding a bike in Manhattan
I moved to New York City this year and I hate riding the subway. So instead I’ve been pedaling my bicycle along the busy streets of Manhattan.
At  first I rode cautiously. But then I began following the more  experienced and daring riders, studying their technique. And now I feel comfortable  racing taxis through Broadway avenue traffic using the things I’ve learned from others and new ideas I’ve worked out for myself.
But in a larger sense I think my ideas on how to get around this town on two wheels just might be applicable to you, off a bike and in pursuit of your business or personal success. Let’s see. As always, I’d love to read your comments.
Top Ten Tips for riding a bicycle in Manhattan:
 Continue reading →

Chapter 55: Mr. Darcy Game
Mr. Darcy is a famous literary character.
He is also a world famous lover.
He doesn’t just get any girl, but he gets the girl he wants. Getting what you want and not just what you can get is fundamental to our philosophy at Charisma Arts, and I’m going to use Mr. Darcy’s dashing example to explain how you can achieve this too.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 56: Video: Building Bridges
Who knew that the Golden Gate Bridge provided such a good metaphor for two people building a relationship? Wayne ‘metaphor maker’ Elise obviously…
Much like any worthwhile interaction, a bridge isn’t built from one side but works when both sides put in effort and meet in the middle.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 57: How to be a good student at a Conversation Camp
A good student at a  Conversation Camp is someone who isn’t afraid to be challenged.
We all have areas of our lives that we might be dissatisfied with: whether it’s never closing a date with an attractive woman or a sale that could be career changing. Yet being dissatisfied with an aspect of your life, whether it is in dating, socializing or business, doesn’t mean that you’re bad at it.

Students of our Conversation Camps are just driven to be better. 
You want to be an expert conversationalist and never miss an opportunity again to get that business deal or date again.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 58: Rule one of a conversation camp: Face your fears
Rule one of a Conversation Camp: you’ve got to come ready to confront your fears.
Lots of the time people try and avoid fear in their lives: the fear of speaking to someone new, escalating a situation, pitching your idea to your boss. There are even plenty of people out there who want to teach you to avoid fear. To do this they try and tell you that our interactions can be scripted.
But scripts don’t work in real life.  Continue reading →

Chapter 59: How to say ‘I’ instead of asking ‘You’
Do you come here often?
This is one of the most famous, and worst (though it has stiff competition from any references to whether I fell from heaven), pick up lines known to man. Worst of all it is easily recognizable as a pick up line. Aside from the fact it is a hopeless cliché, whenever a guy starts showing an amazing interest in how I’m feeling today/ where I was born/ my dead pets’ names, I kind of get the impression he is attempting to flirt with me.  In fact inside my head I’m probably thinking ‘don’t you dare stare at my boobs’ shortly followed by ‘evacuate’.
That is because questions are often invasive, boring, and completely unnecessary.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 60: Tips on how to use ‘How to Meet and Connect with Women’
I introduced my ebook, ‘How to meet and Connect with Women‘ three years ago. Since this time it has seemed to help guys improve their ‘game’ and connect with the women they find attractive. Guys email me pictures of the girls they’ve gone out with, new girlfriends they got and a few times, even babies they’ve made. (Please don’t name any kids after me. Name them after Disney characters. That’s more fun.)
* You should think of my ebook as a practical guide.  Continue reading →

Chapter 61: Listening
Most of us listen so poorly to others because we don’t want to hear what they have to say. We want them to be different from who they truly are. We push them to be pawns of our desire so frantically we put words in their mouths:
“How you doing, alright?”
“Did you have a good time at the circus?”
“Oh, you work as a nurse. That’s a noble profession. You’re a good person.”
Those lines are bad.  Continue reading →

Chapter 62: Mad, Bad and Dangerous to Know
Mad, bad and dangerous to know. That’s what they said about Byron the poet. He was a hell-raiser who seduced innocent, young women, made enemies, fought duels, slept with his cousin – that sort of thing.
I think we need more of that type of behavior around here. An informal poll of women I know reveals a taste for men who are mad, bad and dangerous to know.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 63: Grooming 101: What to do about nose hairs.
Okay, let’s get down and dirty. Or up and nasty, depending on your point of view. I want to talk about nose hairs. Once upon a time I paid no attention to nose hairs. I was young and blissfully unaware. Other than the occasional stuffed-up variety of nose, I mostly ignored my appendage, counting on it to just go wherever I did and do it’s thing without any advice from me.
But something unexpected happened on the way to middle age. Hairs began sprouting out of places I’d never expected. One night, after being rejected from my attempted make out with a friend, of a friend, of a friend, I took a look in the mirror and talked to myself, “That girl liked me. At least from afar. But when we got close, SHAZAM, nothing. What happened?”
I breathed on the mirror. Hard to tell, but my breath seemed okay. I looked for other clues. True, I was pastey white. And I needed a shave. And I was a DUDE. How could any girl want to make out with a dude anyway? Yuck.
Okay, I was getting off track. I moved closer, and that’s when I spotted them, peeking out like paintbrush bristles. Their roots buried up somewhere deep. Nose hairs!  Continue reading →

Chapter 64: Commitment
I decided to write this post as this is something I feel my clients often do not realize the importance of. When I think about it, numerous pillars of our method revolve around the idea of commitment from both parties in an interaction. So I want to share some of my thoughts with you about why this often undervalued principle is so important.
First, barring a few exceptions due to extraneous circumstances, I cannot think of an interaction that I was ‘blown out’ of when I was fully committed to beginning a conversation. The times when I have been unsuccessful in my endeavors have been when I was in my head, and betrayed this self-consciousness through  non-verbal behavior. In other words, I was not thinking about the other person and my genuine interest in engaging them, but instead I was thinking of myself, and how to get something from them. I feel that this is a negative mindset to be in, as it prevents you from being in the moment and focused on finding out about this unique person that fate has placed across your path.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 65: Finding inspiration in an unexpected place
Yesterday during my run I ran though the cemetery. I love cemeteries. Looking at the headstones, reading the names and dates. My favorite headstones are the ones with two names chiseled on them, a husband and wife. He’s dead but she’s still living. Her date of birth is the only date under her name. Sometimes she’s outlived him by twenty or thirty years already. Kinda sad, but kinda beautiful too.
You’re probably wondering what all this has to do with meeting women. Well, it has a lot to do with meeting women, or men or whomever you want to meet.
Let’s face it, internet-dating is competitive, and full of unattractive and sketchy people.  Continue reading →

Chapter 66: How to meet a girl in Starbucks
I’ve been working on simple ways to meet people. Here’s one way that I’ve practiced with success.
But first things first. This will not work if you are not fun and relaxed in your interactions with strangers.
So be cool. If you don’t know how to be cool then sign up for my Conversation Camp. There’s no shame if you need to learn to be better in conversation. Most people try to be the dictator of the conversation. They’re so worried about getting something out of her they squeeze to tightly. This is like trying to squeeze sand in your fist. It just pours out.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 67: Some thoughts on being Seductive
Hello from Barcelona. When traveling abroad I often have limited time. I’m always running to catch a train or a flight, or working with clients, or practicing my art. I tend to fire off quick thoughts in my journal. I would like to share a few with you.
* Since you learn things about people when you make statements you should watch their expressions closely. Are they into what you are saying or drawing away from you? These things let us know where the other person is at. We can learn how they feel and where their heart is at.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 68: How to use statements to get someone talking back. (aka questions are for wimps)
My definition of conversation: a two-way interaction where two or more people freely share ideas and create a verbal synergy that is more than the sum of its parts. i.e., fun.
You can hold up your side of the conversation by providing more statements and asking fewer questions.
“How do you show interest in people without asking questions?” my friend G-Rod asks me. I punch him in the shoulder and tell him you make statements in a personal way that make people reciprocate. The best way to start a fire is not by rubbing sticks together. It’s to stick something in there already on fire.
For example, just today….
 Continue reading →

Chapter 69: How to meet one of those cool girls with a Mac laptop
It is my presumption that people who use Macs as opposed to PCs are more interesting. I’m biased for sure, but when I see a girl with a sexy PowerBook on her lap I know she’s my type of woman. So in this scenario I’m presuming you feel the same way. Pay attention to her nonverbal feedback during your statements which can make you pursue the topic further or go in a different direction.
There she is. Red hair and running shoes. She is sitting at the coffee shop behind a 17 inch aluminum Apple piece of modern art. She taps at the keys with two fingers, periodically wrinkling her forehead and frowning.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 70: How to open an attractive stranger in the Xmas gift return line.
You: Excuse me, I can’t help but notice that you are unsatisfied with your fruitcake-pattern hoodie. I have to say that I’m surprised but happy for you.
Her: “Ha, hah ha.”
You: “I’ll trade you my Lance Armstrong tire repair kit. Or better yet, I got some Grandma cookies here somewhere.”
Her: “Oh, I had too many of those lately.”
You: “Yeah, I can relate. I like that about you. You and I are the same. Who would have known. So I’m thinking of a New Year’s resolution. What’s yours going to be?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 71: Write your meeting/dating/conversations with hot strangers here and I will shine them up.
'You girls are crazy!'
For a limited time. I want to help direct you. Swallow your ego and write about your mistakes. What happened on your meets/dates/interactions with the opposite sex that went wrong. Post it in the comments section below and I will give you some ‘Wayne’ ideas to try next time.  Let the fun begin.

Chapter 72: Why I like dinner dates
I consider myself a great observer of people. I fascinate myself endlessly by creating stories for the people I see. That dude over there, sitting and feeding the pigeons, he’s a retired Navy officer who just lost a game of Battleship. That woman wearing a black turtleneck works as an internet executive. Her twelve year old daughter loves soccer but, I’m afraid, is not very good, and that annoys her competitive mother. That middle age couple sitting in the window of the coffee shop just started dating. How do I know? Because only newly-dating couples want to see each other under so much light.
Years ago I started to incorporate my imagination into my dating lifestyle. Sitting at dinner I would find some interesting people and point them out to my date. “I wonder what the story is with them. Whadya  think?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 73: Risk
Well, here I sit in my house in Ann Arbor, typing out a post for you crazy Charisma Arts cats. I’m back from a trip across the planet. I talked my talks in Perth, Melbourne, Sydney and Honolulu, along with a few side trips and two Conversation Camps. 7 hotels, 14 flights, 22 bags of chips, a pot of coffee administered intravenously and karaoke with Curtis and the Hawaiian Funky Bunch.
Ever wonder what its like to sit through one of my talks? Well, the first question I asked in Australia was, “Which is better, the movie Iron Man or Batman?”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 74: New Public Talks Announced
Hey everyone, we just got the logistics for these worked out and I wanted to let you know about them in case you’re in the area and want to meet with Wayne and pick his brain about how to charm women (and other secrets of life).

The cost of each talk is $30 USD and they’ll last about three hours each.  Click here to read the reviews of what they’re saying about Wayne’s talks last month in Perth, Sydney and Melbourne.
If you have any questions just contact us.

Chapter 75: The importance of Trust in getting chicks to dig you.
Have you ever done a trust fall? That is where you cross your arms in front of your chest, straighten you legs and then tip yourself backwards with someone behind you that will be willing and able to catch your fall. In order for you to do this you have to be willing to trust your partner. If they don’t make the catch you could break your back or bust your head open and forget who you are, Charlie. There’s a scene in my favorite movie of all time, Mean Girls, where the characters utilize a trust fall. It’s dorky I know but so I am sometimes, ha.
When picking up women, your partner in the trust fall is the woman you are talking with. You must trust her. That is an order from me, Captain Wayne to you, Sergeant Reader-of-this-article. Women can sense when you don’t trust them. They understand that a man who doesn’t trust is a wannabe dictator. And as with most dictators he’s no fun to be around.
If any of these are you then give me a call and we will talk about setting you on the right path.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 76: Don’t know what to say to a woman?
I have met many men over the last few years who all felt the same way.  They found themselves sitting next to a cute girl they wanted to impress but just didn’t know how to say something interesting. They didn’t know how to create conversational flow or get off of dead end topics like the weather or Obama’s mole. Everyone’s been there. I’ve been there. We often can’t leverage our conversational best when we’re under pressure.
But there’s a solution. Take my Conversation Camp. You can find them on our schedule on the top navigation menu above.  Just choose “events”.  I spend a whole weekend teaching you in a small group of others my conversation techniques which will teach you how to create a flow of interesting conversation, handle difficult questions, increase your presence and leverage a sense of humor. Hopefully talk with you soon.

Chapter 77: How to talk to a woman when there is nothing easy to talk about. AKA Death by Volleyball
Ever not know what to say to an attractive stranger when there is nothing about her or the environment to begin a conversation about? Boy, do we have the answer for you.
This video stars Wayne Elise as himself.
Also look for Charisma Arts instructor dR in a cameo appearance as Doctor Thompson.
The steps to talking with a woman when you have nothing to open a conversation with:
#1 Get within conversational distance
#2 Wait for your moment.
#3 Use a positive presumption. (not assumption)
Good luck. Have fun. And take a bootcamp and learn to have even more fun.

Chapter 78: What happened? You be the judge!
Being charming often comes down to understanding the principles of human interaction. To help us better understand these dynamics, read the following story and comment on where Bob wimps out, uses pansy-speak and plays his cards wrong. Bonus points for spotting goofy techniques. I have placed numbers along the side to enable reference.
01: The Scene: A bar somewhere. Bob approaches a group of women.
02: “Hello ladies,” he says. “I can only stay for a minute.”
03: “Okay…,” the women say.
04: He sticks his hand out. “My name’s Bob.”
 Continue reading →

Chapter 79: How to get a girlfriend
How to get a girlfriend in three easy steps:
Step #1 
Wear nice clothes and smell good. A woman may hook up with a guy dressed like Milli Vanilli but she won’t want to get in a relationship with him. She knows that a potential boyfriend will have to eventually be presented to her friends and family. She doesn’t want to be embarrassed. So dress the part of the man she can be proud of. That doesn’t mean you have to become a Rocker if you’re a Mod but it does mean that your clothes should be cleaned, pressed and tailored to fit your body.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 80: How to Crash a Wedding Podcast
Listen to this Podcast to hear field-tested advice on how to crash a wedding.
Awhile ago Wayne issued a request on our Forum for guys to crash weddings and write about their experiences. Most guys were afraid of showing up at the party uninvited, but a couple of brave souls answered the challenge. Aaron joins us on the Podcast to share some tips from his adventure. Here’s a hint: Do Your Homework!
When the bride stated she didn’t know him Aaron had to think fast. Let’s listen and find out what he learned and if he’s planning on crashing again.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/AaronWeddingCrasher.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 81: Date Planning Podcast
What Happens When You Don’t Show Up For A Date?
 This podcast finds Wayne digging back into his dating toolbox to fix a hook up-gone-bad.  Did you know that women don’t like it when you tell them you’ll meet them and then don’t show up.  Well that’s what Taras, one of our alumni, found out the hard way and told us all about it on our Forum.  Wayne decided to step in.  He put on his Superman cape and gave Taras a call to straighten him out, fix his bad dating habits (day time dates and making murky plans), and hopefully get the girl.  Learn what to do when a girl says “I made other plans,” in this podcast and more.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/womanscorned.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 82: Bootcamp Interview Podcast
“A few weeks after the bootcamp I seemed to have four or five girls that I would go out with,”  says our bootcamp client Brett.

Join Wayne and Rob as they interview alumni Brett about his recent bootcamp with Troy and John David in New Orleans.   Listen to this podcast if you are considering signing up for a bootcamp and want to know what to expect and how to prepare for it.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode11.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 83: How to Get a Killer Vibe and More
The latest installment of our Real Game Podcast series finds Wayne interviewing Rob all about the magic oregano in the pasta sauce of flirtation known as Vibe.   Rob talks about how guys get stereotyped by the clothes they wear and Wayne explains the allure of polyester track jackets.   Wayne goes on to talk about European fashion and then disqualifies himself so much his pants catch on fire.  Towards the end Wayne and Rob talk about what your facial expression should look like when you are talking versus listening.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode8Music.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 84: Learn How to Escalate and Isolate in Loud Bars and Clubs!
“Bars and Clubs Suck!!!” says one of our forum members.  We disagree. It’s not the fault of the bars and clubs.  You are approaching in the wrong way for a music blaring, lounge-lizard crawling venue.  Wayne tells it like it is about acting genuine instead of nice and relates that sometimes you have to throw the conversation out the window and pick up a different tool to meet women.  Rob explains that you have maybe two minutes to escalate after you approach before you’re rejected she says she’s going to the bathroom and shares with our listeners the  easiest way to be alone with a woman on the couch away from her friends and she’s leaning in for a big fat smooch.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode7.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 85: What to do if a Woman Offers to Pay for the Date
What does it mean if a woman offers to pay for a date?  Wayne answers this question and more (and gives some cool statistics on the dating issue) in the first podcast from Charisma Arts University.  Rob meanwhile makes fun of Wayne’s clothes and then can’t get a word in as Wayne talks into the microphone like a game show host.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode5.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 86: Internet Dating Profile Remix
In our 3rd Episode, Wayne rewrites an internet dating profile gone astray, Rob says it’s OK to not always be a knight in shining armor and Wayne explains why you can never shake a woman’s hand after a hookup.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode3.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 87: How to Get Commitment in a Group
“How do you prompt for effort in a group?” asks a member on our forum.  Wayne and Rob explain a bit about how to handle large groups and Wayne tells you exactly how many people you need to win over in a group before you’re “in.”  Later on the guys explain why it’s OK to stop using I-statements sometimes.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/Episode2.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 88: How to Deal with an Age Difference
Welcome to the first episode of our new Real Game Podcasts series, an entertaining broadcast featuring Wayne and Rob that focuses on solving real-time problems that guys encounter in the course of meeting attractive women.  These broadcasts are often based on topics brought up in our Forum and also include occasional interviews, thoughts and ramblings on how to meet and attract women, all based on the foundations of the Charisma Arts eBook, How to Meet and Connect with Women, and starring the rest 	of the Charisma Arts Team.
In this podcast, Wayne and Rob answer some questions from our Forum including:

When to bring up a big age difference with a woman.
Signs that a girl is interested in you, do they matter or not?

Click the play button on the media player below to play the podcast.  You can also download it using the link below.


 Standard Podcast Play Now | Play in Popup | Download
podPressShowHidePlayer('1', 'http://www.charismaarts.com/podcast/audio/AgeandIOIs.mp3', 290, 24, 'false', 'http://charismaarts.com/wp-content/plugins/podpress/images/vpreview_center.png', 'Standard Podcast', 'Charisma Arts');

Chapter 89: Use your imagination to get the hotties.
I admit it. I played Dungeons and Dragons and read fantasy novels in my youth. I’m an imaginative person at heart. Maybe you’re like me. Maybe in your formative years you went into your imagination and not outside into the social world.
Personally I’m glad that happened to me. Being able to leverage a strong imagination is more important to socializing in adulthood than almost anything else I’ve discovered. I’d like to thank my old neighborhood bully Mike. I could not have done it without you. I’m sorry I thought ill of you. You did the right thing sitting on my head in front of all those girls. I just didn’t realize your foresightful wisdom until years later.
Seriously, when I’m taking a client out into the ‘field’ they are always surprised by how much ‘fantasy’ I use in my conversations with people. Very rarely do I talk about reality. I just don’t want to be tied down by it.  Reality sucks. And that’s coming from a guy who’s done a reality show, so I know. Fantasy is better.
 Continue reading →

Chapter 90: The Connections Can Find You
I believe in the Nostradamus theory of attraction.  
Nostradamus was a 16th century seer.  His present-day followers believe that he predicted big world events such as the Great Fire of London, Napoleon, World War II, and even the 911 terrorist attacks. Indeed when I read some of his words I can sort of see where those followers are coming from – just got to read into the imagery a bit. Maybe I can find next week’s lottery numbers.  
However what I have also learned about Nostradamus was that he babbled non-stop and people wrote down everything he said. With countless manuscripts full of his lucid visions, its easy to find something that sounds like a modern-day event. 
Nostradamus was a ladies man, I figure.  I want you to be Nostradamus.  I want you to understand that if you reveal enough about yourself a woman will find something to connect with.   Continue reading →

